Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to
look at two different services at AWS WAF or
Web Application File,
and AWS Shield.
And it's important to understand the differences
between these two services going into
your Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So why don't we start with WAF.
What is an AWS WAF?
So like I said,
WAF stands for Web Application Firewall
and this is basically a device that
helps you protect your web applications from
common web exploits that could
affect application availability,
or compromise security,
or consume excessive resources.
So what do we mean by that?
Well in technology there's this thing,
there's a model,
it's called the OSI layers,
and there's basically seven different layers
going all the way up the stack,
and you start at layer one,
which is the hardware or physical layer,
and it goes all the way up to
the application layer which is at layer seven.
And a WAF is a Web Application Firewall.
So basically it's a firewall that's going to
inspect your web traffic and look for
someone doing malicious things.
So it can actually see what it is,
what's going on.
So normal hardware firewalls all work at layer four.
And a web application firewall is
sometimes referred to as a layer seven firewall
and it can actually see
the traffic from the application layer.
So to help make sense of this,
I'll give you a practical example.
So we've got our attacker
and our attacker decides to
hack our WordPress site and
basically you can do this yourself if
you Google it.
Essentially you can get the scripts and
basically they're WordPress of vulnerabilities.
So someone has figured out,
oh look here's a common WordPress vulnerability that's
associated with this version of
WordPress so I'm going to do some cross-site scripting,
or I'm going to do a SQL injection and
a SQL injection is basically you're sending
basically a database command and
you're telling the database to drop all the tables
so you're essentially deleting all the
tables in a database.
Now if your attacker had found a SQL injection that
works with a vulnerable,
you know version of WordPress,
they would then send this to
let's say your load balancer.
Your load balancer would then pass it on to
your EC2 instance and that would go down.
However if you have a web application firewall in front of
your load balancer,
essentially what's going to happen is it
will not send that SQL injection on to
your EC2 instances,
it's going to look at the code and
say hey this is definitely a SQL injection.
I'm not going to pass that on to my EC2 instances.
So it operates at layer seven,
at the application layer and it's designed to
stop attackers from doing things like
cross-site scripting or SQL injections etc.
It's basically designed to
stop people from hacking your website.
So that is what WAF is,
what is AWS Shield?
And how's it different from WAF?
So AWS Shield is a managed Distributed Denial of Service or
DDoS protection service that
safeguards web applications running on AWS.
So what does that actually mean? Well essentially
WAF is going to protect you against hackers,
Shield is going to protect you against DDoS attacks and
a DDoS attack is simply where
someone basically maliciously sends you a lot of traffic,
so much traffic that
your web servers grind to a halt,
and they stop responding.
Now Shield is turned on automatically,
with all new AWS accounts but
it does come in two different flavors.
So standard is the one that
comes automatically with all AWS accounts,
and then we also have advance.
Let's go over to the AWS Console and
have a look at AWS Shield.
Okay so here I am in the AWS Console,
if I click on services you'll be able to
see Shield and WAF down here or WAF and Shield,
so it's under security, identity and compliance.
Going to go ahead and click on that
we've got WAF here and
we've also got AWS Firewall Manager.
This actually allows you to
manage your WAFs across multiple accounts,
but it's beyond the scope of
the Certified Cloud Practitioner course.
In WAF as well this is the
web application firewall service,
so you can go in and configure that,
again that's beyond the
scope for this course we do cover this off in the
Certified Security Specialty course however,
and then in here we have Shield.
So if we go to AWS Shield,
you'll be able to compare the
two different standards.
So we've got AWS Shield standard and
AWF Shield advanced,
and advanced gives you a lot more features.
The thing that you should notice is
the cost protection,
so if you have AWS Shield advanced turned on,
and you get DDoS,
AWS will actually reimburse related Route 53,
CloudFront, and Elastic Load Balancer that DDoS charges.
So if you do get DDoS,
you're not going to have to pay for the charges that
that DDoS attack,
you know,
basically creates when you're using Shield Advanced.
Now Shield Advanced is $3,000 a month.
For a lot of enterprises that
actually comes out really cheap,
just depends on how big your organization is.
But for some,
obviously if you're a small business that
could be an awful lot of money.
So, on to my exam tips.
Just know the difference between WAF and Shield.
WAF is designed to stop hackers from doing things like
cross-site scripting, or SQL injections or
anything on the application layer.
Whereas Shield is a DDoS mitigation service designed to
prevent DDoS attacks.
So that is it for this lecture guys.
One more left and then we're ready to summarize,
and then you're at the end of the course.
If you've got the time please join me in the
next lecture, thank you.