Okay hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this section of the course.
This is where we're going to cover
security and compliance on AWS.
I'm going to start out with compliance
and a service called AWS Artifact.
So how do you know that Amazon
is actually compliant with anything?
How do you know that it's safe
to take credit card transactions on the AWS platform?
How do you know that it's safe
to store healthcare information?
Well, Amazon go out and get tested
by a lot of different compliance programs.
It might be PCI DSS.
It might be HIPAA, et cetera, et cetera.
And to view all these different compliance reports,
you can go to aws.amazon.com/compliance.
So I want you to go there now.
That's aws.amazon.com/compliance.
Okay, so here I am on the compliance landing page,
and if we click on View our Compliance Programs,
you can have a look at all the different compliance programs
that AWS follows.
So ones to note here globally is ISO 27001.
We've also got SOC 1, SOC 2, and SOC 3,
and then we've also got PCI DSS.
PCI DSS is an online payment standard,
and essentially, if you are taking online payments,
you have to PCI DSS compliant.
Now, Amazon, or AWS, is PCI DSS compliant
up to the infrastructure layer.
That does not mean that you're
automatically PCI DSS compliant.
You have these things called gap audits,
and essentially what they do is, they'll go in,
and they'll look at your EC2 instances.
Do you have your security groups open?
Have you secured your RDS instances?
That sort of thing.
So AWS has some responsibilities,
and you have some responsibilities,
and we're going to cover that
off in the Shared Responsibility Model,
which is later on in this section of the course.
But for now, I just want you to know
that AWS go through a lot of different compliance programs.
These can be global.
These can be based in the United States.
So FISMA is one, Federal Information Security Management.
HIPAA is another very popular one.
This is for healthcare information.
And then if we go down,
we've got different ones across the Asia Pacific,
and then different ones across Europe, as well.
So AWS have a whole bunch of different compliance programs
that they're basically members of,
that they've been attested to.
You can go through and read them.
Basically, for the exam, just understand
that compliance on AWS is,
you can go through and get copies of these reports,
and you can then give those to your auditors.
You can also do this in the AWS console.
If you go over to Services and you go down
to Security, Identity, &amp; Compliance
and go all the way to the bottom, we've got AWS Artifact,
and AWS Artifact basically features a comprehensive list
of access-controlled documents relevant to
compliance and security in the AWS cloud.
So you can go through and get basically compliance documents
for, let's say, the AWS Workbook
for Korean Financial Services Institute,
et cetera, et cetera, and there's a ton
of different documents through here.
Feel free to go and randomly explore them,
but if you do see AWS Artifact come up in the exam,
just remember it's to do with compliance
and getting documentation around compliance.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.