Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
So in this lecture we're going to look at two services.
We're going to look at AWS Quick Starts
and AWS Landing Zones.
So if you just go over to AWS.amazon.com/quickstart.
So this is the Quick Start landing page,
and if you scroll down you'll be able
to see it's broken down into different services.
So databases in storage, big data and analytics, data lakes,
data warehousing, machine learning, internet of things,
blockchain, et cetera, et cetera.
And basically these are all environments
that have been created by solutions architects
to help you get started with
a particular technology quickly.
So for example we've got here Microsoft technologies,
say you wanted to set up an email service
in Microsoft Exchange.
What you would do is you'd go in
and you'd just hit the view guide
and that will take you over to the guide for this particular
Quick Start.
And you can actually go in here
and say launch Quick Start for a new VPC.
What it would do is take you over to CloudFormation
and you can see here it's using a CloudFormation template.
And you can actually go in and hit view/edit template
in designer, and you'll be able to see
that CloudFormation template
and what it is that it's building.
So you can see here it's building out
an Active Directory stack.
It's building out our exchange servers,
it's building out a whole bunch of different infrastructure
and you can go down and have a look at this.
It's completely beyond the scope of the Certified Cloud
Practitioner to, it's completely beyond the scope
of the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam to understand this,
but we do have CloudFormation courses
on the A Cloud Guru platform.
So all Quick Start does is essentially it deploys solutions
into your AWS account and these solutions have been designed
by AWS experts in that particular technology.
So this one would have been designed by an Exchange expert.
If you wanted a big data solution to be deployed in your
account that would have been done by a Redshift
expert, for example.
So there's lots of different templates that you can use.
And it's completely free to use the Quick Starts service,
but of course, just like with anything
that CloudFormation does, the resources
that it does provision for you,
you're going to have to pay for.
So you're going to have to pay for
the EC2 instances, et cetera, et cetera.
Now if you go over to AWS.amazon.com/answers/AWSlandingzone,
AWS Landing Zone is different to Quick Start
in that Quick Start, it will just provision
a pre-defined CloudFormation template
in a particular technology into one AWS account.
Landing Zone allows you to set up a multi-account
AWS environment at the click of a button.
And it's basically, it looks like this.
So you've got your AWS Organizations Account,
you've then a Shared Services Account,
you've then got a Log Archive Account,
you've then got a Security Account.
So it's going to deploy four different accounts
for you and it's going to go in and set those accounts up,
so it's a great way of automating multiple account setups.
This is quite new, it was released at re:Invent 2018
so it may or may not yet feature
in the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam,
but I would expect it to come up fairly soon.
So what are my exam tips?
Well, just know the difference between
Quick Starts and Landing Zones.
So Quick Start is a way of deploying environments
quickly using CloudFormation templates
built by AWS Solutions Architects
who are experts in that particular technology.
So we looked at an Exchange one
and then we also looked at AWS Landing Zone,
and this is a solution that helps customers
quickly set up secure multi-account
AWS environment based on AWS best practices.
And Landing Zone currently starts with
four different AWS accounts.
So understand the difference between
those two going into your Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So that's it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture, thank you.