Okay, hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to the very
last theoretical lecture of the course.
So AWS like to basically confuse you
with these three different services
so you need to understand the difference between
AWS Inspector, AWS Trusted Advisor,
and then CloudTrail.
We did cover CloudTrail briefly
in the last section of the course.
So why don't we start with Inspector,
Inspector basically is an automated security
assessment service that helps you improve
the security and compliance of your
applications deployed on AWS.
Inspector basically automatically assesses applications
for vulnerabilities or deviations from best practices.
And after performing an assessment
Amazon Inspector produces a detailed list of findings
prioritized by a level of severity.
And these findings can be reviewed directly
or as part of detailed assessment reports
which are available via the Amazon Inspector console or API.
So what does that actually mean?
Well basically Inspector is an agent
that you install on your EC2 instances,
and it will go through and look for common vulnerabilities.
And it could be using some assessment rules from
the Center for Internet Security for example.
And it will go through and say hey
you've left this port open or you've done this wrong,
or you haven't patched this vulnerability
you need to apply the latest Windows patches,
or the latest Linux patches.
And it will basically produce a report telling
you all about what's wrong with your EC2 instances.
So I want you to associate Inspector with EC2,
it's something you install on your EC2 instance
and it will inspect the environment.
What's Trusted Advisor?
Well Trusted Advisor is not just a security service
it actually does a whole bunch of things.
So it's an online resource to help you reduce your cost,
increase your performance, and improve security
by optimizing your AWS environment.
Trusted Advisor provides real time guidance
to help you provision your resources
following AWS best practices.
And Advisor will advise you on cost optimization,
performance, security, and fault tolerance.
So it's a way of basically
you use a Trusted Advisor to have a look at
your entire AWS environment,
it's not about EC2
it will actually go through and have a look
at your entire AWS account and then give you
basically a report on it.
And it comes in two flavors,
So you've got your core checks
and recommendations which are free.
And then you've got full Trusted Advisor
and this is for business and enterprise companies only.
And then finally if you remember in the last section
of the course we were looking at CloudWatch
and CloudWatch monitors performance.
CloudTrail monitors API calls in the AWS platform.
So CloudTrail is basically like a CCTV camera,
it's going to record everything that's going on
in your AWS environment.
And it gives you increased visibility into your AWS
environment by recording AWS Management Console
actions and API calls.
So if someone goes in and creates a new user,
or a group, or a role, or an EC2 instance, or an S3 bucket,
AWS CloudTrail is going to record that
and you can identify which users and which accounts
called AWS, the source IP address from which
the calls were made and when the calls were made.
And it's all saved into S3.
So let's go and have a quick look at these three
different services in the AWS console.
Okay so here I am in the AWS console,
and if we just go over to services we will be able
to see our different services.
So, CloudTrail is under management and governance.
And you can go ahead and click on CloudTrail.
And so like I said just earlier CloudTrail is a way
of recording what's going on in your AWS environment.
I'm not going to do that, we do cover this off
in the Certified Security Specialty
in a lot of detail though.
If we click on services we can go down to
security, identity, and compliance,
and in here we can see our two other services.
So we've got AWS Inspector
and then if we go over here you can see Trusted Advisor.
Trusted Advisor is under management and governance,
so there's Trusted Advisor there.
Let's start with Trusted Advisor
and I'm going to go ahead and ask it for some advice.
Right now it's actually already given me
some recommended actions.
So as soon as you open this up it'll start to scan
your different environment.
This is global service, do bear that in mind.
So right now it's checking all the different
security groups I've got around the world
and it's seeing if certain ports are open to all traffic.
And then it will give me a warning about that.
And you can see right here security groups
specific ports are unrestricted.
Four of my six security group rules allow
unrestricted access to a specific port.
So that's actually really, really good.
In here it's looking at S3 bucket permissions
and it's saying that one of my buckets
has global access so I should go in and fix that.
And if we scroll down it's not just
going to give me security information,
it's also going to give me things like,
I'll just scroll back up.
So here we've got the four different security ones.
If we go over to cost optimization we'll be able to see
what cost optimizations it's going to give me.
Likewise we've got performance, security, et cetera.
If we actually just go back to the dashboard
and you scroll all the way down you'll see that
you can upgrade your support plan
to unlock all of Trusted Advisor.
So you need to go in there and hit upgrade.
Let's go back over to Inspector.
So Inspector is in here,
so just remember sorry with Trusted Advisor
that this is looking at your entire AWS ecosystem.
It's looking at your entire account and giving you advice,
and it's not just security advice
it's things on like how you can save money as well.
Where as Inspector, if we click on Inspector
is a security service that we actually
go and install on our EC2 instances.
And effectively Inspector is going to go ahead
and run assessments on the actual individual host.
So it's going to run host level assessments
on our EC2 instances.
And again I'm not going to do this
we do cover this off in the Certified Security Specialty
course however, how to setup Inspector.
But it's just important to remember that Inspector
runs at an operating system level inside EC2,
whereas Trusted Advisor looks at your entire AWS account.
And then whereas CloudTrail basically operates
as a CCTV camera and it's recording all of your
AWS account and what people are doing inside it.
So really those are my exam tips.
AWS Inspector is used for inspecting
EC2 instances for vulnerabilities.
AWS Trusted Advisor is not just security
but it inspects your entire AWS account,
not just EC2 and it does more than security checks
it also does cost optimization checks
as well as performance and fault tolerance.
And then finally CloudTrail increases the visibility
into your user and resource activity
by recording AWS Management Console actions and API calls.
And you can identify which users and accounts called AWS,
the source IP address from which the calls were made,
and when the calls occurred.
So that is it, think of CloudTrail as a CCTV inside AWS.
So that is it for this lecture guys
you've done fantastically well,
you are almost at the end of the course.
In the next lecture we're just going to review
everything we've learnt from a security perspective,
and then in the next section we'll look at how
you can go ahead and book your exam.
So if you've got the time
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.