(Ryan) Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at the differences
between AWS Budgets versus AWS Cost Explorer.
So start with AWS Budgets, basically AWS Budgets
gives you the ability to set custom budgets
that alert you when your costs or usages exceed
or are forecasted to exceed your budgeted amount.
So essentially you use it to budget costs
before they have been incurred.
So that's all AWS Budgets is,
it's a way of creating a budget for your AWS account
and it's used to forecast costs
and to alert you of costs before they have been incurred.
AWS Cost Explorer is basically the opposite.
So AWS Cost Explorer is an easy-to-use interface
that allows you to visualize and understand and manage
your AWS costs and usage over time
and it's used to explore costs
after they have been incurred.
Let's have a look at these two in the AWS Console.
So here I am in the AWS Console.
In order to get to it just click up here
and go over to your billing dashboard,
and in here you'll see the two different ones.
We've got Cost Explorer and we've got Budgets.
So Budgets, you can go in here and create a budget.
I'm not going to do it because it's really,
I mean you can do it in your own account if you want.
But really going into the exam you only need to know
the differences between the two different services.
I just wanted to show you how to find them.
Cost Explorer is in here.
You have to enable Cost Explorer in order to start getting
metrics on it so you can click in there to enable it,
and it's literally a one click, you know, service,
and it will start populating data straight away
but it can take up to 24 hours to populate spend data
for your AWS account.
So onto my exam tips, just remember the differences
between Budgets and Cost Explorer.
Budgets is used to budget or predict costs
before they are incurred,
whereas Cost Explorer is used to explore costs
after they have been incurred.
So that is it for this lecture everyone,
if you have any question please let me know.
If not feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.