Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at AWS Systems Manager.
So ASW Systems Manager allows you to manage
your EC2 instances at scale.
Now I appreciate so far in this course
we've only really been using one or two EC2 instances.
But I want you to imagine what would happen
is if you had this many, or this many,
or this many, or this many, or this many.
And basically when you have multiple EC2 instances
it's called an EC2 fleet.
And I want you to imagine SSHing into each
individual EC2 instance and just running an update.
You run a yum update command.
It's going to take you an awful lot of time.
So AWS created AWS Systems Manager,
and essentially what happens is, is you'll go
and when you deploy an EC2 instance,
you install a piece of software on it.
And the software connects that EC2 instance
to Systems Manager.
And then you can use Systems Manager to
do a run command, so you could run a command
across all your EC2 instances at once.
So it could just be yum update.
So you only need to run that command once,
and it will be deployed to all of your EC2 instances.
You can also use it for patching, et cetera, et cetera.
Let's have a quick look at it in the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console, and you'll find
Systems Manager under management and governance,
and here it is down here.
So it's under Service Catalog in this current console.
And you can see here, we're not going to go through
an install, it's beyond the scope of the
Certified Cloud Practitioner course.
We do cover this in greater detail
in the Certified SysOps Administrator course,
but down here you can see all the different
things that you can do.
So you can use the Run Command,
or you can use Patch Manager.
You can also go and create maintenance windows
across all your EC2 instances.
And the cool thing about Systems Manager
is it doesn't just have to work on AWS,
inside EC2, you can also use it and deploy the software
on your on premise servers as well.
And you can use Systems Manager to
basically manage all your systems
both inside AWS as well as in your own data centers as well.
So on to my exam tips.
As with most of the AWS services,
you just need to know what this is at a high level
for the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So Systems Manager can be used to manage
fleets of EC2 instances or virtual machines.
A piece of software is installed on each virtual machine
and can be both inside AWS as well as on premise.
And basically you can use the Run Command,
which can be used to install, patch or uninstall software.
And then finally Systems Manager
integrates with CloudWatch to give you
a dashboard for your entire estate,
both on-premise and off premise as well.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.