Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture. So in this lecture,
we're going to look at VPCs. Now you have actually already used a VPC.
You just weren't aware of it.
When we provisioned our very first EC2 instance that was done in a default
VPC and every region that exists in the AWS world
you get-when you open up a new account-you get a default of VPC in that
region. So you might be wondering, well, what is a VPC?
Well VPC stands for Amazon virtual private cloud or VPC and it
lets you provision a logically isolated section of the AWS cloud,
where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define.
So essentially it's a place where you can launch EC2 instances,
for example just keeping it really simple,
but we can have other things in our VPC as well such as S3 buckets,
we can connect our S3 buckets to our VPC, DynamoDB,
et cetera,
et cetera but I just want you to think of it basically as a place where it's a
logically isolated place of the AWS cloud,
where you basically define your own network settings.
So you can control the IP address ranges, for example,
you can control what subnets are created,
whether those subnets are public or private, et cetera.
So I want you to think of a VPC,
basically as a virtual data center in the cloud,
that's all a VPC it's your own data center and you make the rules and
you control what goes in and out of that data center.
So that's all a VPC is, and it gives you customizable configuration.
So you can easily customize the network configuration of your VPC. For example,
like I said,
you can create public facing network zones for your web servers that have access
to the internet
and then you can place your backend systems such as databases or applications
servers in a private network that has no internet access
and then you can connect your VPC using a VPN to your existing
corporate data center,
as well as your headquarters and basically you leverage the AWS cloud as an
extension of your own corporate data center.
So VPCs we just covered as a high level.
All you need to know going into your exam is what a VPC is.
It's just a virtual data center in the cloud that's dedicated to you.
You set all the networking rules. So you control all the IP addresses,
what subnets there are, whether they're private or public, et cetera, et cetera,
you control your own you know,
virtual firewalls using security groups and don't worry too much about
VPCs at this stage, you just need to know what they are.
In the Certified Solutions Architect Associate, we start deep diving into VPCs,
you'll go in and create your own VPC and then you basically have to
learn how to do that from memory and then with advanced networking we go even
further. So you there's a lot more to learn about VPCs.
It does get very complicated and technical.
So I don't want to scare you off at this stage. At this stage,
just for the cloud practitioner all you need to know is what a VPC is,
and it's just a virtual data center in the AWS cloud,
and you can make your own rules for that data center.
So that is it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.