Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this very quick lecture.
In this lecture we're just going to briefly look over the AWS partner network.
So there's two different types of partners.
You've got consulting partners and you've got technology partners.
Consulting partners generally will provide a service.
So this could be designing architecting, building, migrating,
and managing customer workloads and applications on AWS. So it's sort of,
service-based, it's consulting based.
We then have technology partners and these partners provide hardware,
connectivity services,
or software solutions that are either hosted on or integrated with the
AWS cloud. Now to be a consulting partner,
you need a certain number of certified people within your organization,
and there's three different tiers of consulting partners.
So you've got Select which is the entry level tier,
you've got Advanced which is the middle level tier,
and then you've got Premier which is the top tier
and essentially let's say for a Premier,
if you wanted to be a Premier or registered consulting partner with AWS,
you need to have at least 10 employees who have a certified cloud
practitioner certificate.
you must also have employees have at least 10 associate certificates and
10 professional or specialty certificates. Now,
an employee who has both the certified cloud practitioner,
let's say solutions architect, associate,
and then a solutions architect professional that would take up one of each of
those different tiers.
So one employee can have multiple certificates but you need a minimum of
10 of each certificates in order to reach Premier partner status and the cool
thing about this is it's really good for you because if you go ahead and get
your certified cloud practitioner certificate and your organization wants to
become a consulting partner, your certificate will count towards that.
So they really incentivize the certification program.
So you just need to understand going into your exam,
that there's two different types of partners.
You've got your consulting partners and your technology partners and in order to
be a consulting partner,
you need a certain number of AWS certified people within your
organization. So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know. If not,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.