Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture,
we're going to look at AWS Organizations.
We're going to create an organization.
We're going to add multiple AWS accounts
to this organization,
and this is a lab.
You will need to login to the AWS Console.
Don't worry if you don't have multiple AWS accounts.
You can just watch me
if you don't want to do it yourself.
So, it's entirely optional,
but definitely watch this lecture
because AWS Organizations
does come up quite a bit
in the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Console.
And now, to get to AWS Organizations,
you have to click up here,
and you need to go to My Organizations.
Now, note that it's gone global.
So, AWS Organizations is a global service,
and what we want to do is go ahead
and create an organization,
and we have our two different options here.
So, we've got this creates an organization
that gives you single payer
and centralized cost tracking,
lets you create and invite accounts,
lets you apply policy-based controls,
and helps you simplify organization-wide
management of AWS services,
or you can create an organization
with only consolidated billing features.
So, I want to do the main one.
I want to create an organization
that has full access.
So, that has now generated an account,
and it's asking me to verify my email address.
So, I did just get an email from AWS.
I'm going to go through and just verify that now,
and you can see it now says,
"Your email address has been verified,"
and what I can now do is go in
and add additional AWS accounts.
So, I can either invite an account
or I can create an account.
So, I'm going to go ahead and invite an account.
All you have to do is enter the email
or account ID in here,
and then you can enter in a little note
that will go with your request,
and then you go ahead and hit Invite.
So, I'm just going to type this in now,
and apologies, I am blurring out
my emails because I don't want to get
random emails from thousands of different people.
Okay, so you can see I've got quite a few
accounts now that have joined this organization.
So, here we go.
We can see that I've got no organizational units.
So, what I might want to do is just create some orgs.
So, we'll do our developers,
create organizational unit.
Going to create one for human resources,
and then I'm going to create one for sales.
So, we'll have three different accounts, Sales.
Go ahead and hit Create.
So, we've now got three different organizational units
rather than accounts,
and what we want to do
is we're going to put our accounts
into these organizational units.
Before we do that though,
we should apply some policies
to our organizational unit.
So, we can click over here on Policies,
and then you'll see by default
we have a full AWS access policy that's created,
and we can go ahead and create our own policies.
So, I'm going to call this policy LetsGoServerless,
and this policy blocks EC2.
So, we're not allowed to use EC2.
We have to do everything serverlessly.
So, in here, we could deny specific services.
So, you could select to deny something,
or you could select to allow something.
So, I want to deny,
and I'm going to go in,
and I'm going to type in EC2,
Amazon EC2, and then we can select our actions,
and you can actually just deny individual actions.
So, we don't want to allocate IP addresses for example,
but I'm going to select all.
So, 274 actions have been denied for EC2.
And then, just here you click Add statement,
and then this is effectively
building a statement out saying Amazon EC2 deny.
So, let's go ahead and create this policy.
So, I've created this policy,
and we can go over to our organizational units.
So, what I want to do is I want to take this account,
and I want to move it over to my developers.
So, I'm going to click on Developers and hit Move.
So, that is now nested in my Developer account.
If I click on my Developer account,
I can see Hello Cloud Gurus in here,
and then in order to apply
some service control policies,
all I need to do is click on here,
and I'll be able to see the different policies.
So, these are the policies that are available,
and these are the policies that are inherited.
So, I'm going to attached the LetsGoServerless
into this organizational unit,
and now this Hello Cloud Gurus account
will not be able to provision EC2 instances.
It is being denied by that policy.
So, that's how AWS Organizations works.
It is super, super useful,
especially when you start doing this at scale.
Do remember, if you do create an organization
as a root account,
you can't then invite other organizations
that have root accounts as well.
So, root account can't invite another root account.
So, that's something to bear in mind.
So, onto my exam tips.
Well, just remember what an organization is.
It allows you to create organizational units,
so developers, human resources, et cetera,
and then attach accounts to those organizational units,
and then you can apply policies,
and policies can be applied
directly to organizational units,
and all the accounts in there will inherit it,
or you can apply a policy
directly to an AWS account.
So, if you have any questions,
please let me know.
If not, feel free to move onto the next lecture, thank you.