Okay, hello Cloud Gurus.
Congratulations, you're at the very last lecture
of the billing and pricing section of the course,
we're just going to summarize everything that we've learned.
Now, if you remember from reading the exam blueprint section
that billing and pricing is worth about 16%.
To be honest, it is actually in my opinion
worth a hell of a lot more on the exam.
It features very, very heavily on the exam.
So it is worth remembering all the billing and pricing stuff
that we've learned in this section of the course.
So that being said, the very first thing I do before sitting
the exam is go ahead and read this white paper.
And just remember the conclusion that while the number
and types of services offered by AWS have increased
dramatically, the philosophy on pricing has not changed.
You pay as you go, pay for what you use, pay less as you
use more and pay even less when you reserve capacity.
If you can remember that going into the exam
it will make your scenario-based questions a lot easier.
Make sure you remember going into your exam
the difference between Capex and Opex.
So, Capex stands for capital expenditure,
which is where you pay up front.
It's a fixed sunk cost.
And then Opex stands for operational expenditure,
which is where you pay for what you use.
I want you to think of utility billings
such as electricity, gas, water, et cetera.
Also, it's really crucial that you remember
the four different pricing models.
So we've got on demand the EC2,
which is where you pay by the hour, or by the minute,
we've got reserved, which is where you pay up front,
and the longer you reserve and the more you pay up front,
the more discount you get.
We then have spot,
which enables you to bid whatever price you want
for instance capacity, however you only ever want to use
this way your applications have flexible start and end
Times and then finally, we've got dedicated hosts.
This is a physical EC2 server that's dedicated for you
and your use only.
And this can help you reduce costs by allowing you
to use your existing server bound software licenses
such as VMware or Oracle.
Also remember the free services Amazon VPC is free,
Elastic Beanstalk is free, CloudFormation is free,
Identity Access Management or IAM is free,
Auto Scaling is free, Opsworks is free
and Consolidated Billing is all free.
But do remember that the services like Elastic Beanstalk,
or cloud formation or Opsworks,
where they're provisioning resources for you like EC2
you will have to pay for those resources.
So just remember that going into your exam.
Definitely, like I said, read
the How AWS Pricing Works white paper.
I'd do that after this lecture, if you can.
Remember the difference between AWS Budgets
and Cost Explorer.
So, Budgets is used to budget or predict costs
before they're incurred, whereas Cost Explorer is used
to explore costs after they have been incurred.
And then I want you to remember the different support plans.
So we have basic which is free,
that's probably what you've got with your free tier account,
developer's $29 a month.
It always depends on your spend.
So if you are using, it starts at $29 a month,
but if you've got a massive production account,
it can increase but it's starts at $29 a month.
Business is $100 a month
and then enterprise is 15,000 a month.
The big difference between enterprise
and all the other support packages is you get
a technical account manager, TAM.
So that's the main difference.
If you see a scenario question where you need a TAM,
you want the enterprise support package.
You also get much better response time.
So if you've got a business critical app,
and you need a response time within 15 minutes or less,
you want to go for an enterprise level account.
So moving on to tags.
What are tags?
Tags consist of a bunch of different things,
but essentially, their key value pairs
that are attached to AWS resources.
So they're basically metadata.
Metadata is just data about data.
And tags can sometimes be inherited.
So we have a cloud formation template, for example,
and we do a tag on it, all the resources of that
cloud formation stack spins up will inherit those tags.
We then also learn about resource groups
and it makes it easy to create the resources
using the tags that are assigned to them,
you can group resources that share one or more tags.
So you can put tags in your resource group.
So might be a tag about the region that it's in
or the name of the resource or whether or not
it's going to need to pass health checks,
et cetera, et cetera.
Also, remember that using resource groups, you can apply
automation to resources tagged with those specific tags.
For example, in this section,
we stopped all EC2 instances in the Stockholm region.
So we're able to do that using AWS Systems Manager.
And Resource Groups in combination with AWS Systems Manager
allow you to control, execute, automate,
control and execute automation against entire fleets
of EC2 instances all at the push of a button.
So AWS Systems Manager is very, very powerful,
but you have to do your tags correctly.
And then we learned that tag editor is a global service
that allows us to discover resources and to add additional
tags to them, and that newer regions may take some time
to be compatible with the tag editor.
Moving on to AWS Organization.
So, there's two different types.
There's AWS Organizations full access
and then as AWS Organizations just with, you know,
consolidated billing.
This is full access.
So you have your root account,
you then have your different organizational units.
So finance, developer, could be marketing, whatever.
And then you have AWS accounts
that will sit behind those organizational units.
And then you can apply policies either directly
to organizational units or to AWS accounts themselves.
And some best practices when dealing with AWS organizations.
Just make sure you always enable
multi-factor authentication on your root account.
Make sure you use a strong and complex password
on the root account.
And then always make sure that the paying account
should be used for billing purposes only.
You shouldn't really be deploying resources
into the paying account.
We then had a look at linked accounts.
So, you can have a 20 linked accounts
to organizations currently, but you can just add more
just by going to this web address and you can add
more accounts into your organizations.
In terms of billing alerts when monitoring is enabled
on the paying account.
The Linked Account is also included.
So you can have billing alerts
across all of your AWS accounts.
But then you can also still create individual billing alerts
on a per account basis.
And we also looked at CloudTrail.
So, remember CloudTrail is for auditing,
whereas CloudWatch is for performance.
CloudTrail, basically, what you should do is on
a Per AWS account and has also enabled per region.
And what you should do is basically enable CloudTrail
on your account and in all regions,
and then you can consolidate your log data
using an S3 bucket.
To do this, what you should be doing is turning on
CloudTrail in the paying account, then creating
a bucket policy that allows cross account access,
and then you turn CloudTrail on in all the other accounts
and then use the bucket in the paying accounts.
It's basically sending that data to a bucket, almost like
to a black hole, and no one can go in and then change that.
Moving on to consolidated billing with AWS
that allows you to get volume discounts
on all your accounts.
Remember that unused reserved instances for EC2
are applied across the group.
And then in CloudTrail is on a per account
and per region basis, like I just said.
And essentially what you do is you aggregate all the data
into a single bucket belonging
to the paying account as well.
Moving on to Quick Start,
this is a way of deploying your environments quickly
using CloudFormation templates built by AWS Solutions
Architects who are experts in that particular technology.
So, we looked at doing a exchange deployment
and it was literally we could just click the button
and it would spin up a CloudFormation template
that would build out our Exchange servers,
our Active Directory servers, et cetera, et cetera.
So Quick Start is always on a per account basis.
Do not confuse it with AWS Landing Zone,
which is a solution that helps customers set up
a multi AWS account based on AWS best practices
and currently it will set you up
with four different AWS accounts.
A organizations account, a Shared Services account,
a log archive account, and then a security account.
And then moving on finally to our different calculators.
So AWS Simple Monthly Calculator is used to calculate
your running costs on AWS on a per month basis,
it is not a comparison tool.
If you're being asked to do a comparison, you want AWS's
Total Cost of Ownership calculator,
which is used to compare the costs of running
your infrastructure on premise in the AWS cloud.
And then you can use it to generate reports
which you can give to your C-level execs
to make a business case to move to the cloud.
And then finally, just remember
that these calculator questions come up a lot.
So I would go and play with both calculators
and make sure you're comfortable with them.
I was having an issue with the TCO,
cost of the TCO calculator using Chrome.
I switched over to Safari and it worked fine.
So if you do have some kind of issue,
just switch browsers and that should fix it.
So, that is it for this lecture, guys.
You've done really, really well.
There's one more section to go and then you're ready
to take your cloud practitioner exam.
So if you've got the time
please join me in the next section.
Thank you.