[Ryan} Okay. Hello, cloud gurus.
And welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at CloudFormation.
Now CloudFormation is by far
one of AWS's most powerful tools.
And it's actually what got me
interested in AWS to begin with.
I used to be an infrastructure architect.
So I would go out and build
environments with physical servers.
This would be hundred plus server deals
that I'd be working across multiple sites.
We had to put everything in from the sand,
the networking gear, the firewalls,
the load balances, the networking switches.
And then we did this across multiple sites.
So we had MPLS circuits.
We had to figure out how to fail over from one to the other.
And these deployments typically would take
three to six months to provision
just because of the complexity
and the amount of physical hardware that you needed.
And then AWS released CloudFormation.
What CloudFormation does is
it turns your infrastructure into code.
And so what you do is you create these templates
and you say, hey, create an EC two instance.
That's a T2 micro and deploy it into this availability zone
et cetera, et cetera.
And this code can then be deployed in multiple regions.
And you can actually go and codify your entire environment.
And then basically provision that in multiple regions
in multiple AWS accounts all within minutes.
And it completely changed my perspective on cloud.
I suddenly realized that AWS weren't playing around
that they were going to be a very serious contender
in the public cloud space.
And that's when I started becoming obsessed
with AWS and wanting to learn it because I knew
as an infrastructure architect, my days would be numbered.
Turned out to be one of the best decisions ever of my life.
I love AWS and cloud formation
is really what got me started on the journey.
So what we're going to do in this lecture
is we're going to look at CloudFormation.
We gonna go and provision a very simple WordPress site.
I'm going to caveat it right now
and say the WordPress site won't actually work
because the AWS CloudFormation template is out of date.
It's provided by the CloudFormation team.
And I have reported it to AWS
but I haven't heard anything back yet.
But you'll be able to see the EC two instances
and the RDS instances, et cetera.
You just won't be able to log in to WordPress
and do the WordPress installation
at least not without SSH into your EC two instance
and changing the version of PHP.
But that aside it will demonstrate to you the power
of CloudFormation and what you can do with it.
And if you are interested in learning CloudFormation
we have deep dive courses on the A Cloud Guru Platform.
So this is a lab
and you will need to log into the AWS console.
Okay? So here I am in the AWS console.
And if we click on Services
you'll find CloudFormation under Management and Governance.
So you can see it in there.
Go ahead and click on it.
Right now I've got no stacks,
so CloudFormation consists of stacks.
So what we want to do is go ahead and create a stack.
Now you can use your own templates.
You can create templates and a designer
or you can use a sample template.
We're going to use a sample template.
In here we're going to use
a simple WordPress blog sample template.
And it's basically gonna go
and you can see the template in here.
It's hosted in S3.
If anyone works for AWS
could you ask them to update this template
so that the WordPress side actually works.
It'd be really appreciated.
I'm gonna go ahead and hit next.
In here we gonna enter our stack name.
So I'm just going to do a cloud guru.
I'm going to copy that
into my clipboard and do that for everything.
So my database name, my database password, my root password.
And then my user.
I'm gonna change this over to a T2 nano
or maybe do a T2 micro.
It's up to you.
Select a key in here
so that you're going to use to connect into EC two.
So I'm going to use my private key.
And then I'm just gonna leave everything else
as default
hit next, scroll all the way down and hit next.
And we're gonna go ahead and create the stack.
So that is now provisioning the stack.
And what is in this stack is a simple EC two instance
as well as an RDS instance.
So it's going in
and creating and configuring EC two as well as RDS.
And then when this is done
we should be able to get what's called an output.
And that will be a URL that we can connect
in to our AWS environment.
CloudFormation can take a little bit of time
depending on how complicated the environment is.
This is pretty easy environment.
So it probably take you five or 10 minutes.
If you're doing hundreds of servers, it can take hours.
So it really depends on how complicated the environment is.
So I'm just gonna pause the video
and wait for this stack to be created.
Okay, that has now been created.
You can see here, it says, create complete.
Now this stack is actually only
provisioning an EC two instance.
I thought it might do an RDS instance as well
but not with this particular template.
If we click in outputs, we'll be able to see the URL.
If we click in here
you can see that we're getting an error message.
And it's just saying your servers running PHP version
5.3.29, but WordPress requires at least version 5.6.
Unfortunately, this isn't my template.
So I can't go in and fix it.
This is AWS's.
So someone wants to let the people
in the AWS CloudFormation team
know that the template isn't currently working.
That would be fantastic.
But in any sense, it doesn't matter.
I just wanna show you what CloudFormation
is capable of doing.
So it's not only just capable
of provisioning EC two instances.
It can do RDS instances.
It can install software.
It's a way of automating your entire infrastructure.
In here we can actually go
and have a look at the template itself.
You can go in and view it in the designer
and you can go in and design your own templates as well.
So you see it in here.
It's quite a simple template is just provisioning
essentially a security group and an EC two instance as well.
Now we do have entire deep dive course
on CloudFormation on the A Cloud Guru Platform.
If you do want to learn more about CloudFormation
it is essential to understand CloudFormation inside out
if you're going to work as a solutions architect within AWS.
And that's it really for CloudFormation.
Let's go and have a quick look
at our EC two instance that's running.
I think I've got a web server that's still running.
Yeah, I do.
So web server or one, that's not what was provisioned
by our CloudFormation template, but this one was.
You can see it's a T2 micro.
And again, you can see it's
in our default VPC, et cetera, et cetera.
So you could go in and delete this instance
but that's not the best way to clean up CloudFormation.
The best way is to go into CloudFormation
and delete the stack.
So I'm gonna go back over to CloudFormation
and then all you need to do is go in and hit delete.
And this will delete the entire stack.
So delete all the resources that the CloudFormation
template provisions.
So in this case, it's just an EC two instance
and a security group.
But if you were doing RDS instances
or Lambda functions or whatever
you would then be able to go in
and delete all those resources as well.
One thing I will show you actually
which is kind of interesting.
If you go into Lambda and click in here,
we can actually use CloudFormation
to create basically Alexa skills.
And it's in the serverless application repository.
This is essentially just using CloudFormation
to provision Lambda functions.
If you type in here,
it's defaulting right here.
It says Alexa skills kit, no JS.
So this will basically deploy a fact skill for Alexa.
And again, it's beyond the scope of this course
to teach you how to design Alexa skills.
We do do it
in The Certified Solutions Architect Associate Course
as well as The Developer Associate Course.
It is an awful lot of fun.
And then again, we have Alexa courses
on the API Group Platform.
The cool thing with building Alexa skills is
you don't need to know how to program.
You can actually just use CloudFormation
to deploy all the skills for you.
And then you can just get
up and get started really, really quickly.
And we show you how to do that
in The Solutions Architect Associate Course as well.
We just quickly go back and check out on CloudFormation.
We'll just make sure
that the stack has gone and it has completely disappeared.
We go into EC two and just check that our running instances
you can see that instance has now been terminated.
So let's go onto my exam tips.
Just remember what cloud formation is.
It's a service that helps you model
and set up your AWS resources
so that you can spend less time managing those resources
and more time focusing on your applications that run in AWS.
And you create a template
that describes all the AWS resources that you want.
So this can be things like EC two instances,
RDS instances, et cetera, et cetera.
And AWS cloud formation takes care of the provisioning
and configuration or configuring of those resources for you.
You don't need to individually go in
and create and configure your AWS resources
like we did with our WordPress site
and figure out what's dependent on what
AWS CloudFormation handles all of that for you.
So CloudFormation is fantastically powerful.
Elastic Beanstalk, and CloudFormation of both free services.
However, just remember that the resources
that they provision such as EC two instances
or IDs instances, et cetera, are not free.
So the service itself is free
but not the actual resource that it provisions.
And then finally just remember
that Elastic Beanstalk is limited
in what it can provision and is not programmable
whereas CloudFormation can provision almost any AWS service
and is completely programmable.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.