Okay. Hello,
Cloud Gurus and welcome back to the summary of cloud concepts and technology.
You're almost done. This is part two. So what else did we learn?
We learned that you can interact with AWS in three ways.
So the first way we interacted with AWS was using the console.
We then went on to use the command line interface or CLI,
and of course you can also do it using the software development kits and we
cover that off in the Certified Developer Associate Course.
We then learned that storing credentials on our EC2 instance,
it's probably not a good idea because of that EC2 instance is hacked basically
people could use that credentials
to access our AWS environment anywhere in the world.
So we learned that roles are much more secure than using access key IDs and
secret access keys,
and then much easier to manage and you can apply a role to an EC2
instance at any time when you do this,
the change takes place immediately. Roles are universal.
You do not have to specify what regions they're in. Similar to users,
they are a product of IAM, which is a global service.
We learned about load balancers, they come in three different flavors.
So application load balancers. These are layer seven load balances,
network load balances, and then classic load balances,
application load balancers, like it just said are layer seven.
So you can make intelligent routing decisions.
That can actually see into the traffic network load balances you'd use for
extreme performance,
or if you need static IP addresses and then classic load balancers are pretty
old school. They're probably going to be phased out at some point.
You'd use these for test and dev or to keep your costs low.
We then went on to learn all about the different databases. So we have RDS,
which is a SQL online transaction processing database.
these consists of six different technologies or database engines.
So we've got Microsoft SQL server, mySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle,
Aurora, Maria DB. We then have DynamoDB,
which is Amazon's noSQL database technology and then we have Redshift,
which is used for data warehousing.
So this is used for online analytics processing.
So this is when you're doing the like really large sorts of queries,
as opposed to online transaction processing,
which is individual transactions at any given time.
We learned about ElastiCache.
This is the way of caching of very frequently used database queries and it
consists of two different types of MemcacheD and Redis.
We learned that Redshift is for business intelligence or data warehousing.
ElastiCache like I said before to speed up performance of existing databases.
So these are frequent identical queries.
So it might be your top 10 on your Amazon store,
for example and then we also learn about graph databases and that they're
very highly scalable and highly available.
We didn't really cover it off in the database section,
but we looked at it in the white paper. The thing to know,
going into your exam is if it's asking you for what Amazon's graph database
service is, it's a service called Neptune.
We learned that RDS has two key features.
When we started provisioning our RDS instances. we have availability zones.
This is used solely for disaster recovery.
If you need to increase your performance, you want to use Read Replicas.
So multi-AZ is for DR. Read Replicas is for performance.
We then went on to learn about auto scaling.
So we created our own little auto scaling group.
It allows you to provision multiple EC2 instances behind a load balancer,
and basically it will automatically scale depending on your demand.
We then went on to learn about Route 53 and Amazon's domain name
system or DNS service.
A DNS service works exactly like a phone book is the process computers use to
resolve domain names to IP addresses.
So if you want to look up a name and get someone's telephone number,
that's essentially what DNS does and Amazon's DNS service is called Route 53.
It is named that way after Route 66 so that's,
you know, the first interstate highway across America.
The reason it's called Route 53 is because DNS is on the
port 53. Route 53 is global.
It's similar to IAM and S2,
and you can use it to direct traffic all around the world,
and you can even use it to register a domain name.
We then went on to Elastic Beanstalk. This is where we could quickly you know,
create the infrastructure to support our code. So with the Elastic Beanstalk,
you just you basically upload your code.
You don't have to worry about the infrastructure that runs those applications.
Basically you upload your application Elastic Beanstalk will automatically
handle the details of capacity provisioning, load balancing, scaling,
and application health monitoring. Essentially,
developers use Elastic Beanstalk if they don't know how to use AWS.
In sort of opposite a similar service,
but opposite is Cloud Formation. So if you know what you're doing with AWS,
you're going to use CloudFormation all the time.
This helps you model and set up your AWS resources so that you spend less time
managing those resources and more time focusing on your applications in AWS
and you just create a template. The template is a JSON template,
and it describes all the AWS resources that you want, like your EC2 instances,
RDS instances,
et cetera and then CloudFormation will take care of the provisioning and
configuring of those resources.
You don't need to individually go in and create and configure AWS resources
yourself and we did that by creating a WordPress site,
using a Cloud Formation template.
So know the difference between Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Formation.
both of them are free services. However,
the resources that they provision underneath such as EC2 are not free,
and the main difference is Elastic Beanstalk is limited in what it can
provision. It's not programmable.
CloudFormation is by far the most flexible product,
and it can provision almost any AWS service and it's completely programmable
and then finally,
we went on to learn about AWS best cloud best practices and we went through this
white paper.
I highly recommend you read this white paper before going and doing your exam.
So.
Remember the important global services.
So IAM is global when you create a user or a group or a role that
is created globally. Route 53 is also global.
CloudFront is global.
SNS and SES are all examples of AWS global
services. Also remember which AWS services can be used on premise.
So we looked at Snowball. Snowball Edge. We looked at Storage Gateway.
We looked at code deploy as well as OpsWorks.
So these can be used to deploy things on premise.
If you want to deploy applications on premise,
then you're going to be using Code Deploy and OpsWorks,
we also have IOT Green Grass as well and then finally,
just remember what CloudWatch is. So CloudWatch is used to monitor performance.
CloudWatch watch can monitor most of AWS as well as your applications that run
on AWS CloudWatch with EC2 will monitor events every five minutes by
default
and you can have one minute intervals by turning on detailed monitoring,
and you can create CloudWatch alarms,
which trigger notifications and CloudWatch is all about performance.
So just understand what CloudWatch is.
That's all you need to know in order to go into your Certified Cloud
Practitioner exam and moving on to the very last thing we learned about,
which was AWS systems manager.
So systems manager can be used to manage fleets of EC2 instances and
virtual machines. A piece of software is installed on each VM.
This is sometimes referred to as an agent and it can be both inside
AWS,
as well as on-premise and then you can use the run command to install patch
and uninstalls software,
and it integrates a CloudWatch to give you a dashboard of your entire
state. So congratulations, you are at the end of section two and section three,
we're going to look at billing and pricing and then section four,
we're going to look at security in the cloud. to be honest,
you probably know 60% of the information that you need in order to pass
your cloud practitioner exam.
and this is definitely the longest section of the course. You've done it really,
really well.
I hope you have enjoyed it so far and that you've learnt an awful lot.
So if you've got the time, please join me in the next section. Thank you.