Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at how we can connect our on premise
environments into AWS. So this could be your own data center.
It could be your head office,
et cetera and there's two different ways that we can do this and there's even a
way that we can combine these two different methodologies.
So let's start with a VPN.
So you can create a hardware virtual private network connection between your
corporate data center and your VPC leveraging the AWS cloud as
an extension of your corporate network and data center.
So I'm sure you've all used VPNs before. When you have to work from home,
typically, if you're going to connect into the office network,
you would do that over a VPN.
You can also buy access to retail VPN services,
such as BIFA VPN or Nord VPN.
A lot of people will do this if they want to watch TV shows in other countries
that might be GR restricted. so I'm sure you've all used VPNs before,
and it's just a way of extending a network out to a remote
location.
So you have essentially have the same IP address range at home as you would do
in your office. So that's all a VPN is.
We can also connect in to AWS using Direct Connect.
So AWS Direct Connect is a cloud service solution that makes it easier to
establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS.
It is a physical line that goes into AWS.
So with using Direct Connect,
you can establish private connectivity between AWS and your data center or
office or co-location environment,
which in many cases can reduce your network costs,
increase bandwidth throughput,
and provide a more consistent network experience than internet based
connections.
So if you see any kind of scenario based question where it's talking about
having a more reliable connection into AWS,
or it's talking about bandwidth throughput, being able to increase it,
I want you to immediately think of Direct Connect and it does come up an awful
lot in the exam and what you can do is you can do a VPN over
Direct Connect, and this gives you the ultimate security.
This means that you not only do you have a dedicated line into AWS,
but also that all your traffic to and from AWS is encrypted over the
Direct Connect connection using a VPN.
So if you do again see a scenario based question where you've got,
let's say a VPN connection keeps dropping out, you need a much more reliable,
you know,
method of connecting into AWS then you want to use Direct Connect,
but if you need encryption across Direct Connect,
then you use a VPN over Direct Connect. So that's a really quick lecture.
Hopefully you all understand what it is I'm talking about.
If you have any questions, please let me know. If not,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.