Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
two of Amazon's calculators,
and this is actually a huge part
of the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So I want you by the end of this lecture,
to go away and use these two calculators,
get really comfortable with them,
and make sure you understand
the differences between the two,
because you are going to be quizzed on it
in the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So, AWS help you calculate your costs
by using a couple of different calculators.
And these are available in two feature sets.
The first one is the AWS Simple Monthly Calculator,
and what this does,
this is actually hosted on S3 by the way
it's a static website on S3,
and what it does is it allows you to say,
okay if I've got an EC2 instance
that's of this particular class,
so let's say it's like a GPU instance,
or it's like a a memory optimized instance,
so something like that.
And let's say I've got five of them,
and let's say it's this particular size,
how much is that going to cost me on a monthly basis?
So it allows you to go in and build out
your own AWS environment,
and it all then estimates the costs.
And you can say whether it's on demand,
or whether you're doing reserve pricing,
et cetera et cetera.
So that's what the Simple Monthly Calculator does,
it just simply calculates your cost on AWS.
We then have the Total Cost of Ownership Calculator.
Now what this does,
is it says okay what is it costing you
to have your servers on-premise,
or in a colocation for example,
versus putting them up on the Cloud.
And what you do is you go in, and you enter,
say I've got two web servers and two data base servers,
and 500 gigs of SAN storage for example,
what is that?
What is my total cost of ownership?
And so it's basically saying
it's comparing the cost of,
if you do it yourself, in-house, or on premise,
versus the cost of doing it with AWS.
So that's the differences between the two,
one will just simply calculate your monthly costs on AWS,
the second one, the Total Cost of Ownership Calculator
cost how much,
basically it calculates how much
it's going to cost you to do things yourself,
verses doing it with AWS.
So you must have a clear understanding
of those two calculators going into the exam.
Let's go ahead and check both these calculators out.
So let's start with the Simple Monthly Calculator,
and you can get to it
by going to calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html.
That's pretty cool because we know that
this is hosted in S3,
and the bucket's name is calculator,
so Amazon own this bucket.
And this is a static web page which allows us
to calculate our running cost on AWS.
So just switching over to full screen
so you can see it better.
So let's go ahead and have a look at
what we can do with this.
So compute, we can add some resources,
let's say this is our web servers,
and in here we're going to have, let's say,
24 of them.
Our usage will be 100% utilization,
our type, we can actually click in here
and change the type.
So we can go over and get like some super cool ones.
Let's do z1d.12extralarge,
we'll just go all out for our web servers
and hit close, and then in here,
our billing is on demand or we could go three years,
All Upfront Convertible,
three years All Upfront Reserved,
so something like that.
And then go ahead and hit Close,
and then this will give me my Monthly Cost.
So this is going to cost me $5,846 per month.
Not sure why it's gone back to on demand,
maybe if I quickly just go and change that
to three-year All Upfront Reserves and hit Close and Save,
you can now see that it's going to have a zero monthly cost,
but that's because I'm paying for everything upfront.
So that's all the Simple Monthly Calculator does,
you've got all the various difference AWS services in here,
you can go ahead and change your region,
these currently do have the Stockholm region in here
which is good.
So this calculator is kept up-to-date.
Let's move on to the AWS Total Cost of Ownership Calculator,
and you can get to it
by going to aws.amazon.com/tco-calculator.
And it says here AWS helps you reduce
your total cost of ownership by reducing the need
to invest in large capital expenditures
and providing a pay-as-you-go model
that empowers you to invest in the capacity you need
and use it only when the business requires it.
Our TCO calculators allow you
to estimate the cost savings when using AWS
and provide reports that can be used
in executive presentations.
The calculators also give you the option
to modify assumptions that best meet your business needs.
So basically this is creating a report
that you can take to your CTO and say,
"Hey look this is how much it's costing us right now,
"this is what it would cost us on the AWS Cloud,
"we could save 69% a year
"by moving our infrastructure to AWS,
"and our three-year total savings would be this amount."
So basically this is a way
of convincing your executives to move to the cloud,
and you can click on here,
Launch the TCO Calculator,
definitely do use this before going into your exam,
because the TCO Calculator
and the other, the Simple Monthly calculator do come up
an awful lot.
So you can see in here we can select our currency,
so I can say United States Dollars,
I can say On-Prem or Colocation.
So On-Prem is where you do it yourself,
Colocation is where you're renting a rack in
a data center somewhere.
In here we can go Physical Servers,
or Virtual Machines,
I'm just going to do US East, Northern Virginia,
not all regions are here just yet.
Stockholm is missing for example,
but most regions are here.
So I'm just going to go in and put my App Name in,
so the server type is a Non Database Server,
my App Name is going to be WebServer,
let's say I want four processors with four cores,
and I'm going to have 50 servers, Physical Servers,
and I'm going to have 32 gigs of RAM, something like that,
and then in here my storage,
let's go for 500,
or 400 terabytes of SAN SSD.
So what I can do is I can click down and hit
Calculate Total Cost of Ownership.
There we go we can see that we've got my On-Premise
versus AWS summary.
So I'm going to save 70% a year
by moving my infrastructure to AWS,
and then my three-year total savings would be 1,605,000.
You can see down here it breaks it down
into four different layers,
so we've got server, storage,
network, and then IT-labor and it will show me
what it is that,
what it would cost for me to do this On-Premise,
versus what it is to do with AWS.
And then you can scroll down,
it'll give you the environment details,
this is what we just configured,
and then what the AWS environment will look like,
so this is an m4 extra large with eight vCPUs
and 32 gigs of ram,
and then it will give me a cost breakdown.
So my On-Premises breakdown,
versus my AWS cost breakdown.
And then you can actually go in and have a look at
the calculations, you can go and have a look at
the different methodologies,
the different assumptions,
and you can even, if you go up here,
you can modify the assumptions,
so you can change this
and then you can go ahead and download the report,
and then you would basically take this report
and give it to your C-level exec.
And you'd be able to try and convince them
to move to AWS.
So this calculator always compares
with doing things yourself versus doing things on AWS.
It's just, it's a comparison calculator.
Whereas the Simple calculator
literally is just comparing what you're running cost
will be on AWS.
So it's fundamental that you have an understanding
of that going into your exam.
And the way the calculator works is
it basically breaks it down into the four different areas,
like I just said, so server costs,
storage costs, networking costs, and your IT labor costs,
and that takes into account things like
in the server costs, you know,
what kind of hardware you're going to need,
what sort of rack infrastructure you're going to need,
what kind of power units you're going to need,
what kind of maintenance,
what kind of switches,
then what kind of operating system,
what kind of virtualization if you're using it at all,
and then all your other overheads.
So this is how the calculator works,
and then with labor costs, for example,
it basically just estimates how much server admin time
you're going to have,
as to how much you're going to have to pay
your system administrators.
So onto my exam tips.
So AWS Simple Monthly calculator is used
to calculate your running costs on AWS
on a per month basis.
It is not a comparison tool.
Whereas AWS Total Cost of Ownership calculator
is used to compare the cost of running your infrastructure
on premise versus in the AWS Cloud.
And it's going to generate reports
that you can give your C-level execs
to make business case to them to move to the cloud.
So understand the two,
the differences between those two calculators,
and these do come up an awful lot
in the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So I want you to go and play with both calculators
until you're comfortable with them.
So that is it for this lecture guys,
and that is it for this section of the course,
in the next lecture we're just going to summarize
everything that we've learned in this section of the course,
so if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.