Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're just going to have a quick look at the different compute
services. So this will come up in your exam.
You will be expected to know the different compute services.
So we're just going to review what they are and we'll start with EC2.
So this is basically just a virtual machine in the cloud,
and we've used it extensively throughout this course.
So I'm sure you all know what it is.
We then have LightSail and these are basically simple cloud servers.
So the difference between EC2 and LightSail is EC2 you deploy into like a VPC,
which we're going to cover off us in a couple of lectures from now but basically
it's a virtual data center in the cloud and you can control things like all the
networking components, the firewall rules,
you can connect it up with S3, with DynamoDB, et cetera.
Whereas with LightSail it's much simplified process. So
you basically pick the type of virtual machine that you want.
So whether it's Windows or Linux and then the size,
and it will deploy it for you,
you don't get any of the customization that you would get with
EC2. So it's a great way of just getting started with compute in the AWS.
We then have Lamda, which is serverless compute in the cloud.
So we covered that off in the last lecture and then we have batch
computing,
and this is basically a compute service that you use for batch computing.
Moving on. We have Elastic Beanstalk,
and this is a platform as a service compute service.
So basically it will go in and provision things like your web servers,
your database servers, and install things like MySQL, et cetera.
So it's a way of deploying very quickly to the AWS cloud
and it's all automated. We then have the serverless application repository,
and this allows you to deploy pre-provision serverless applications,
such as Alexa skills and we cover that off in the Certified Solutions Architect
Associate course but essentially this is basically you've got pre-built skills
that you can deploy into Lambda,
and then you can go in and edit the code yourself and then we have AWS outposts,
and this is a way of extending compute to your own data centers or on premise
and then finally we have EC2 Image Builder,
and this helps you build your own custom EC2 images for Linux and Windows.
So you will get some scenario-based questions where it will just basically say,
Hey, which of these, which of the following are compute services.
So I want you to just to remember, I mean,
you could just get away with remembering the main ones, so like EC2, Lambda,
Elastic Beanstalk,
and the serverless application repository, but try and remember all eight,
if you can. So that is it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.