Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
So, this is a really, really quick lecture,
on the different AWS Support plans.
If you remember when we went through the exam blueprint,
it actually specifically calls this out,
and we also, when we created our AWS Free Tier Account,
we selected our Support plan,
which was just the very basic.
So, there was four different types of Support plans.
We have our Basic, our Developer,
our Business, and our Enterprise.
In terms of the basic, we don't have any tech support,
we basically use the AWS forums.
Actually, a lot of what I always find interesting
is sometimes if I'm looking for a question
and type it into Google,
I get really proud when it's
an A Cloud Guru forum question coming up,
rather than the AWS Support forums, as well.
So, you can use our forums
to get tech support on AWS, as well.
With Developer, we have tech support,
which is business hour access via email.
Developer is $29 a month,
and you can have one person open cases
and have an unlimited number of cases.
Business starts at a $100 a month.
Don't forget this scales depending on usage,
so it can be more.
Business you get 24 by seven email, chat, and phone.
You don't get a Technical Account Manager,
but you do get unlimited contacts,
as well as unlimited cases.
And Enterprise starts at $15,000 a month,
it varies on usage.
You get 24 by seven email, chat and phone,
and you get a Technical Account Manager.
A Technical Account Manager is someone that's dedicated
at AWS for your business.
And a big shout-out to all our TAMs
who may be watching this course.
And then in terms of the Support plans,
we have different case severity response times.
So Basic, you don't get anything.
With Developer, you get general guidance
within 24 business hours.
And then if your system is impaired, it can be,
you'll get a response within 12 business hours.
With Business, it starts to scale a lot better,
so you get general guidance within 24 hours,
system impaired is 12 hours,
production system impaired is less than four hours,
production system down is less than one hour.
So, to be honest,
it probably is just worth paying
that $100 a month to get on Business,
just because you get very good response times.
And then with Enterprise, you get really,
really, really good response times.
So, general guidance, 24 hours.
System impaired, 12 hours.
Production system impaired, four hours.
Production system down,
then you're going to have
a response time in less than an hour.
And if it's business-critical system that's down,
it's going to be less than 15 minutes.
And so, onto my exam tips.
So, what level of Support do you need
if you want to have a Technical Account Manager?
Do you know the answer to that?
Well, of course, you need Enterprise level support,
so do remember that going into your exam.
And a big shout-out to all the TAMs who are watching this.
You guys are fantastic, you do a great job.
And then finally,
I would just know the different response times,
especially around things like
your production system being down.
So, if your production system goes down,
and you want, let's say,
one hour or less for a response time,
you either need Business or Enterprise level support.
So, if you have a production system and it goes down,
and you need to get that system back up,
or you need AWS to respond within an hour,
then you're going to either need Business or Enterprise.
If you want a TAM and that one-hour support,
you'd choose Enterprise.
If you don't want a TAM,
but you still need that one-hour response time,
then you choose Business.
So, that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.