Okay. Hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture. In this lecture,
we're going to look Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2,
because there's two Cs and EC2 is one of the oldest services
in AWS and for that reason it features very heavily in the certified cloud
practitioner and in the, all the associates, all the professionals,
and all the specialties.
So understanding EC2 is essential for your certification journey to the
cloud. So what is EC2?
Well basically it's just a virtual server or servers in the cloud,
and it reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to
minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down,
and as your computing requirements change.
So this is a server room and/or a data hall and inside a data center,
there may be literally hundreds of data halls just filled with endless racks
of servers and what
used to happen before AWS and before public cloud providers is if you were as a
customer, wanted a, let's say two web servers and two database servers,
you would contact a managed service provider with someone like Rackspace,
for example, and you place an order with them. They would then go out,
actually physically acquire the servers and then they would rack and stack them.
They'd plug them in they'd cable them, give them power.
Then they'd have to bring them online.
Then they'd have to bring it up to your specifications.
So install all the software,
that sort of thing and you'd have to sign a contract for usually three
years,
sometimes up to five years and you would basically be renting that server off
them and of course the deployment times would be anywhere from two weeks and
even with some service providers that I worked for,
if we were doing really complex hundred plus server deals deployment times could
be at least six months. So take an awful,
awful long time and then Amazon EC2 came along and just changed
everything. Suddenly you could go into the web console and you could just say,
Hey, I want a virtual machine and it would be ready for you
within seconds,
definitely within minutes and you would just be instantly available and you no
longer had these massive wait times and it just changed the whole industry
overnight. It literally revolutionized tech. So with EC2,
there's different pricing models and the first one is on demand and this allows
you to pay a fixed rate by the hour or even by the second with no commitment
and this is what we're going to be using for the rest of this course.
So we're going to provision little EC2 instances.
They're going to be little Linux servers and effectively we're going to be
paying for them by the second. We then have reserved.
This gives you a capacity reservation and you get huge discounts on an
hourly charge. This is where you are locked into a contract.
So the contract terms are one year or three year terms and depending on how much
you pay upfront that maximizes your discounts.
So the more you pay upfront and the longer contract term,
the better discounts you get. So the best,
most cost effective way to get an EC2 instance is to sign a three year
contract and pay that three years all upfront and you'll get the maximum
discount, but then have spot. This kind of works like the stock market.
This enables you to bid a price that you want to pay,
and the price moves around all the time and when it hits your bid price,
then it provisions the instance and when the spot price drops below your bid
price it means that you're going to lose that server.
So it moves around all the time and it's used for applications where you don't
have to worry about losing your, your servers basically.
We then have dedicated hosts.
These are actually physical EC2 servers that are dedicated for you use.
So very similar to the picture I just showed you in the previous slide,
this basically helps you reduce your cost by allowing you to use your existing
server-bound software licenses. Fewer and fewer people do this,
but sometimes when you use a particular technology,
you have to have it on dedicated hosts as per the license terms and
conditions.
So let's have a look at the different use cases for these four different pricing
models.
So we've got on demand pricing and that's useful for users that want the low
cost and flexibility of EC2,
without any upfront payment or longterm commitments. So students like us,
for example and it's good for applications with short terms, spiky,
or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted and it's also good for
applications that are being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.
So on demand is basically all we're going to use in this course.
Reserve pricing is well for applications with steady state or predictable use.
So applications that require reserve capacity and users are able to make upfront
payments to reduce their total computing costs even further.
So like I said earlier, the more you pay upfront and the longer the contract,
the more discounts you get. Reserved has a few different pricing types.
So we've got standard reserved instances.
These offer up to 75% off on demand.
So the more you pay up front and the longer the contract,
the greater discount that you get. So as we go through the rest of this course,
you're going to learn that EC2 has a whole bunch of different types of
instances. One could be used for high performance memory.
One could be used for high performance compute and the problem with standard
reserved instances is you can't change between the instance family.
So you can't go from a high performance memory over to high performance compute,
and that's why they invented convertible reserved instances.
So these offer up to 54% of the on demand capability
and you are able to change the attributes of the reserved instances.
So you can go from one instance of family class to another
and so long as you basically the exchange results in the creation of
reserved instances of equal or greater value and don't worry,
it's completely beyond the scope of this course and even any of the associates
to understand that. It's really,
when you're going into the professional level certs,
you need to be able to work that but right,
all you should be aware of is that there are different types of EC2 instances,
which we're about to cover off and with standard reserved instances,
you can't convert from one to the other. With convertible reserved instances,
you can. We then have scheduled reserved instances,
and these are available to launch within the time windows that you reserve.
So maybe you have a whole bunch of people coming in at 9:00 AM every morning and
everyone's firing up some kind of application,
and it has a heavy toll on your application but maybe they only use the
application for the first hour in the morning then they all go and have their
meetings.
So you can actually schedule a reserved instance from that 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM
time windows. So that's all scheduled reserved instances are.
Moving on to spot pricing. So what would spot pricing be useful for? Well,
this is useful for applications that have flexible start and end times and
applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices and there's a
whole bunch of case studies on the AWS website about sort of genomics companies
and engineering companies who do a lot of computing and they do it in the middle
of the night.
To keep their costs low and this last point straight from the documentation
itself,
it says it's useful for users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of
additional capacity. Now, of course,
that's only true if the spot price is going to be below what it costs for an on
demand instance.
If you have an urgent computing need and the spot price is above the
price of an on demand instance,
then you probably just want to go ahead and use an on demand instance.
We then have dedicated hosts and pricing is useful for regulatory requirements
that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
So it might be that you're in a particular government department and there's
some kind of law that says it must be on dedicated hosts. That does happen.
So you would need to use dedicated hosts from AWS in order to use
a public cloud. it's also great for licensing,
which does not support multitenant virtualization.
So this could be some Microsoft licensing, Oracle licensing, VMware licensing,
et cetera.
So this is where you would use a dedicated host and dedicated hosts can be
purchased on demand and you pay by an hourly basis and they can also be
purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off of the
on demand price.
So I mentioned earlier when we were talking about convertible instances versus
just normal reserved instances.
There's a whole bunch of different EC2 instance types.
This is a summary of the different EC2 instance types.
Now I know what you're thinking. Don't freak out.
You do not need to know all these instance types to do the certified solutions
architect associate exam, or the certified cloud practitioner exam.
Where this becomes more useful is if you go on and do the SysOps administrator
exam or any of the professional or specialty exams.
Sometimes they'll throw questions out at you and some of those answers will have
EC2 instances that simply just don't exist.
So I'm going to show you how to memorize this in a second.
We're just going to run through the different EC2 instance types first.
So we'll start with F1. This is a field programmable gate array, or an FPGA,
essentially,
this is where you can reconfigure the underlying hardware after the chip has
been manufactured. Again, we're not going to go into too much detail about it,
but its use case is for genomics research, financial analytics,
real time video processing, and big data, et cetera.
We then have the I instance class. So this is high speed storage.
So this is for things like no SQL databases, data warehousing, et cetera.
We've got our G classes,
which is our graphic intensive class and this is used for things like video
encoding and 3D applications streaming. We then have our H classes,
which has high disk throughput and this is used for things like MapReduce based
workloads, distributed file systems,
such as HDFS and map RFS and again,
don't worry if you don't know what any of this means,
you will not need to know what all these different instances what they are,
and their use cases going into the certified cloud practitioner or solutions
architect, associate exam. We'll run through the rest of them, T4.
So the T classes is what we're going to be using throughout the rest of this
course and it's basically your lowest cost,
general purpose instances and we use these for things like web servers and
small databases. We've got our Ds which is our dense storage. So again,
this is things like file servers, data warehousing, Hadoop, et cetera.
We've got our R classes. I remember this just as RAM. R stands for RAM.
So this is our memory optimize and so it's memory intensive applications and
databases. We've got our M class, which is our general purpose class. Again,
this is for things like application servers. We then have our C classes,
which is compute optimized. So CPU intensive apps and databases.
We've got our P classes, which is our graphics or general purpose GPU.
So we use this for things like machine learning or Bitcoin mining or anything in
cryptocurrency, et cetera. We then have our X1s,
which is our memory optimize and this is like really extreme memory optimized.
That's how I remember using the X for extreme so it's things like SAP HANA,
Apache spark and we're talking in the terabytes of memory here we then have our
Z1s,
which has high compute capacity and high memory footprint and this is ideal for
electronic design automation and certain relational database workloads with a
high per call licensing costs.
We then have our A1s which are our arm-based workloads and
this is for things like scale-out workloads such as web servers and then finally
we have our U class, which is our bare metal and again,
this is for things like bare metal capabilities that eliminate the
virtualization overhead. Now again, I know what you're thinking.
What the hell is he talking about? I only probably understood like 20% of that.
Now, the good thing is,
is basically going ahead in the certified cloud practitioner and certified
solutions architect associate exam, you do not need to know any of this.
Where it comes very useful is later on, like I said,
when you're doing the SysOps administrator associate or any of the specialties
or any of the professionals,
they'll often throw out questions and one of the answers wil talk about a K
class instance and if you know, there's no such thing as a K class instance,
which today there is not,
then essentially that that answer is wrong and you can eliminate it. Okay.
So how can we remember all this? Well,
this isn't the pneumonic that I've come up with.
I'm very a pneumonic type of person. I like to learn through visuals.
So we've got F for F PGA, I for IOPs, G for graphics, H for high disk,
T for cheap general purpose. So think T2.micro,
which is what we're going to be using throughout the rest of this course.
D for density, R for RAM, M for main choice, for general purpose apps,
C for compute, P for graphics, so think pics expert stream memory,
Z for extreme memory and CPU,
A for arm based workloads and U for bare metal. So that spells fight Dr.McPxz
and then you can choose where you want to fight Dr.McPxz either in
Austin or Australia. So this is Dr.McPxz. You can see she's a doctor,
because she's got like a little light on her head. She's got boxing gloves on,
she's ready to fight.
She's wearing a doctor's jacket and you're going to remember that she's from
Scotland because she's wearing a tartan outfit.
So that's where the mc comes from and she's clearly a pixie because she's got
wings and then you basically want to fight her in either Austin or in
Australia and that is the way I remember it and it really does work so fight
Dr.McPxz au will allow you to learn every single EC2 instance
type and don't worry if you can't remember what P stands for.
You simply know that that is a valid instance type going into your exam and that
will help you eliminate questions and like I said, as well,
we're just looking at the certified solutions architect associate,
or the certified cloud practitioner exams. You don't really need to know this.
It's just, when you go on and do the more advanced exams,
it's really good to know all your EC2 different instance types and it can also
come up in job interview questions where they might say, Hey,
can you name as many different EC2 instance types or instance families as
possible?
If you just remember fight Dr.McPxz au then you will remember every single one.
So that is my silly pneumonic, but it really.
Does work. So we need to move on now to Amazon EBS.
So we've been talking about EC2, what's EBS?
Well EBS is just the virtual hard disks that EC2 users.
So every server has a disk and every virtual server has a
virtual disk.
So Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to EC2
instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes,
you can run a database or you can install an operating system,
or you can use them in any other way that you would use a block device and by
block device, we just mean a virtual hard disk or a physical hard disk.
So Amazon EBS volumes placed in specific availability zones where they are
automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.
So EBS volumes will always be in a particular availability zone.
Your EC2 instance will always need to be in the same availability zone as your
EBS volumes. So just think of EBS as a virtual disk in the cloud.
So just remember that image there, virtual disk in the cloud, that's all EBS is.
EBS comes in two different types. So we've got SSD and we've got magnetic SSD.
We've got two different types of SSD. So we've got our general purpose SSD.
This is sometimes referred to as GP2 and this is what we basically are going to
use for the rest of the course. We then have provisioned IOPS SSD,
and this is sometimes referred to as IO1 and these are the highest performance
SSD volumes where you need really,
really high performance in terms of IOPS.
So IOPS just stands for input output per second.
So basically if you've got a really high performing database,
you probably want provisioned IOPS rather than GP2 rather than general purpose
SSD, we then have magnetic. This comes in three different flavors.
We've got throughput optimized, hard disk drive and this is referred to as ST1.
So this is a low cost hard disk drive that's designed for frequently accessed
and throughput intensive workloads, then have a cold, hard disk drive.
This is SC1. This is basically used for things like file servers.
So for things that are less frequently access workloads and that way you want to
save some money, and then you've got magnetic, which has a previous generation,
and you don't really need to know that going into this certified cloud
practitioner, you just need to remember really the four of them. So GP2, IO1,
EC2 so GP2 is general purpose,
provisioned IOPS is IO1, ST1 is throughput optimized,
and SC1 is your low cost storage. So your cold, hard disk drive.
So that is EBS. They're just virtual disks in the cloud.
So what are my exam tips?
So Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute
capacity in the cloud. It's basically a virtual server in the cloud.
That's all EC2 is.
EC2 comes in four different pricing models. So we've got on demand.
We've got reserved. We've got spot. We've got dedicated hosts.
On demand you pay for by the hour or by the second.
Reserve you pay up front and for a defined contract term
could be one year or three years. The more you pay up front,
the more discount you get. Spot the price moves around all the time,
like the stock market and then we have dedicated hosts and you'd only use this
where you've got a regular three requirements or licensing requirements.
One popular exam topic is what happens if a spot instance
is terminated by EC2.
So let's say that the price has gone down because it's gone above what you're
prepared to pay for it.
Tthen essentially you're not going to be charged for a partial hour of usage if
the price goes above what prepared to pay for it. However,
if you terminate the instance yourself,
you are going to be charged for that hour in which the instance ran.
So it's all around who terminates the instance,
is it because the price has gone above what you're prepared to pay,
well then you're not going to be charged for that partial hour.
If you then terminate the instance, however you do it like 58 minutes in,
you're going to be charged for that full hour. So bear that in mind as well.
Can you remember all the different, EC2 instance types?
Can you remember our pneumonic? Well, it's F for FPGA,
I for IOPS, G for graphics, H for high throughput, T for cheap general purpose.
So think T2.micro. D for density. R for RAM.
M for the main choice for general purpose app. C for compute.
P for graphics so think pics. X for extreme memory.
Z for extreme memory and CPU.
A for arm based workloads and U for bare metal and that basically
equals fight Dr.McPxz au.
So you're going to fight Dr.McPxz either in Austin or in Australia.
So it's entirely up to you, which one you pick. I know it's silly,
but it really does help certainly later on,
if you do want to pursue the specialty exams or the professional exams.
This will really help you out because you'll be able to eliminate incorrect
answers.
And then finally just remember the different EBS volume type.
So EBS is just the virtual disk in the cloud that the virtual servers run off
and there's four different types. Well, there's five,
but there's four different ones that are really relevant.
So you've got your two SSDs. So you've got general purpose SSD,
which we'll be using throughout the rest of this course.
You've got your provisioned IOPS SSDs.
This would be useful for things like really high performance database servers,
et cetera, then have magnetic storage and we've got two different types in here.
We've got our throughput optimized. So ST1.
So this could be things for like, you know basically data warehouses,
for example and then we've got our cold hard disk drive and that's called SC1
and this could be used for file servers,
things where you need to store files cheaply
but you're not going to be accessing them all the time and then we have
magnetic, which is previous generation.
So I appreciate this has been a little bit of information overload.
As always in this course,
what the best way to learn AWS is to start getting our hands dirty with it,
start playing with it. So in the next lecture,
we're going to go ahead and get rid of all the theory,
and we're going to start provisioning some EC2 instances and this is where it
starts to become a really, really fun.
You're going to learn how to build little web servers in the cloud,
and then you're going to go in and delete them afterwards. It's lots of fun.
So if you've got the time, please join me in the next lecture. Thank you.