Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture. In this lecture,
we're going to look at EC2 licensing.
So I want you to recall the different types of EC2 pricing models first
of all,
and to begin where we have On-Demand and this is where you pay either by the
second or hour, depending on the instance types.
We then have Reserved and this is where the more you pay up front,
the greater cost savings that you get.
So you can have either a one-year commitment or a three-year commitment.
If you go for three years, all up front,
you're going to get the greatest cost saving possible.
So you get a lot better savings than with On-Demand instances,
but you are locked into a contract for one to three years,
depending on what you choose.
We then have Spot and Spot instance is an unused EC2 instance.
That's available for less than the On-Demand price. Spot instances run
whenever the capacity is available and the maximum price per hour for your
request exceeds the Spot price. It's not good if you need consistent computing,
such as web servers, for example,
you want your web servers to always be on so they can answer requests.
Spot price instances can be terminated by AWS if the price
per hour drops below the Spot price so just bear that in mind and
then finally we have dedicated hosts,
and this is where you have special licensing requirements and that's what we're
going to explore in this lecture.
So you're going to get some scenario based questions essentially around
licensing and any question that talks about special licensing requirements
I want you to think of dedicated hosts first.
So an Amazon EC2 dedicated hosts is a physical server with an
EC2 instance capacity that's fully dedicated for your use.
Dedicated hosts allow you to use your existing per socket per call or per
virtual machine software licenses
and this can include things like Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server,
and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server.
So those are the different types of licenses that you can use with dedicated
hosts.
So if you do see a scenario-based question where it's talking about you need to
move your workloads to EC2 but you've got a per socket licensing
agreement with a vendor or per core or a per virtual machine licensing
requirement I want you to think straight away have dedicated hosts and so that's
it for this lecture. It's very, very quick,
but just remember that going into the exam and it will definitely pick you up
one or two extra marks. If you have any questions please let me know. If not,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.