Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we are going to look at Elastic Beanstalk,
and it's going to be a really really quick lecture.
Essentially what Elastic Beanstalk allows us to do is,
as you remember when we were setting up our EC2 Instance
we went in and we had to install Apache, we had to get
PHP and stuff working for our WordPress install,
we did it all through a Bootstrap Script,
but we still had to go in and do
all of this sort of stuff kind of manually.
What Elastic Beanstalk allows us to do, is we can
provision our EC2 Instances, we can provision
our security groups, we can provision our
Application Load Balancers, et cetera, et cetera,
all at the click of just one button,
so we don't need to go in and do this ourselves,
Elastic Beanstalk automates everything for us.
All we need to worry about is our actual code.
So Elastic Beanstalk is very powerful,
it's basically a way of deploying AWS
resources if you don't know all that much about AWS
and then in the next lecture,
what we are going to look at is CloudFormation,
which takes this even one step further.
So this is a LAB, we going to keep
it very high level and quite quick.
But you will need to log into the AWS Console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Console,
and you'll be able to find Elastic Beanstalk under Compute.
And actually a popular exam question can be,
name all the compute services, or,
select all the compute services.
So Elastic Beanstalk is one, EC2 is one,
those are the two we've mostly covered off,
Lambda is a serverless compute service.
So just know these that are high level.
So let's go into Elastic Beanstalk and if you've
never used Elastic Beanstalk before,
you're going to get a splash screen like this.
Go ahead and hit Get Started.
In here we're going to give our application a name,
I'm just going to call it HelloCloudGurus,
and then here we chose our platform.
So we can have a pre-configured platform, such as PHP.
And PHP and MySQL is what we were using
when we installed WordPress.
And we can use a sample application
or we can upload our own code.
I am just going to use a sample application,
and go ahead and hit Create Application.
So it's now in Creating My Environment.
It's going to take a few minutes,
so I'm just going to pause the video
and wait for this environment to come back up.
And you can see as we go through here
it's created a security group.
It's using Elastic Beanstalk,
it's created an S3 storage bucket for the environment data.
So it is going through and provisioning AWS resources.
It's all completely automated,
so you don't have to worry about anything.
You literally with Elastic Beanstalk
upload your code, and away you go.
So I'm just going to wait for this to come up online.
Okay, so my environment has now been deployed,
so we've got down here all our recent events.
We can actually go and have a look at our environment
just by clicking in here, it's going to have a URL,
and there you go,
Congratulations!
Your AWS Elastic Beanstalk PHP application
is now running on your own
dedicated environment in the AWS Cloud.
And it also tells us what PHP version we're running.
So I'm back in the Elastic Beanstalk Console,
I can go in here and change my configurations,
we can go and modify our instance types
we can add load balancers in here,
we can do a whole bunch of different things,
change our capacity from being a single instance
to Multi-AZ instances, et cetera.
So Elastic Beanstalk will come up an awful lot
in the Certified SysOps Administrator Associate exam,
as well as the Certified DevOps Professional exam.
It does not really come up much in the Cloud Practitioner,
other than knowing what Elastic Beanstalk is,
and Elastic Beanstalk is essentially just a way
of deploying applications to the cloud,
you don't need to know anything about AWS,
you can literally just go in, upload your code
and Elastic Beanstalk will inspect the code,
and say okay, I need to provision
a PHP environment for this.
So that's all it is.
So to delete this environment we just
go over to Services, just click on Elastic Beanstalk again,
and then just go up to Actions
and go to Delete Application, and that will delete
all the security groups, all the S3 buckets,
the EC2 instances et cetera, et cetera.
So feel free to just delete that application.
So what are my exam tips?
Well just remember what Elastic Beanstalk is,
so with Elastic Beanstalk you can quickly deploy
and manage applications in the AWS cloud.
You don't have to worry about the infrastructure
that runs those applications.
So like we just saw, we didn't have to worry about
provisioning an EC2 instance, we didn't have to worry
about going in and installing PHP,
we didn't have to worry about security groups,
or S3 buckets or anything like that.
Literally all we had to worry about is uploading
our application and Elastic Beanstalk will
automatically handle the details of capacity provisioning,
load balancing, scaling,
application held monitoring et cetera.
So just remember what Elastic Beanstalk is,
essentially it will grow out your infrastructure.
Think of it just like a beanstalk, it'll grow out
your infrastructure underneath you, and all you give
Elastic Beanstalk is some code, and then it will
provision the infrastructure underneath you,
similar to the way a beanstalk grows very, very quickly,
and that's where it gets its name.
So that is it for this lecture guys, if you have
any questions, please let me know.
If not feel free to move on to the next lecture,
where we look at CloudFormation.