Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at Global Accelerator.
Now you just need to understand what Global Accelerator is at a high level for
the CCP exam.
So AWS Global Accelerator is a service in which you can create accelerators to
improve the availability and performance of your applications for local and
global users.
So essentially it's just accelerating traffic to your applications and what
you're doing is you're directing traffic to optimal end points over the AWS
global network and this improves the availability and performance of your
internet applications that are used by a global audience.
So how it works is basically it uses Amazon's dedicated network.
So Global Accelerator sends your users traffic through AWS has global
network infrastructure, improving your internet users performance by up to 60%.
So when you're sending traffic across the network,
you're using Amazon's dedicated network.
It's not traversing a whole bunch of different ISPs, et cetera, et cetera,
it's using Amazon's dedicated backbone network
and this means that when the internet is congested,
Global Accelerator's automatic routing optimizations will help keep your packet
loss, jitter, and latency consistently low.
So going into the exam,
you just need to know what Global Accelerator is and where you would use it.
So Global Accelerator is a service which you create accelerators to improve
availability and performance of your application for local and global users and
just remember that it's using Amazon's dedicated backbone network and this
improves your internet users performance by up to 60%.
So if you see any a scenario-based questions where it's asking how you can
increase reliability and consistency when the internet is congested,
I want you to think of Global Accelerator.
So that is it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.