Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture is a really quick one on IAM credential reports.
So I want you to imagine that you've got an organization with a thousand,
maybe 5,000,
or even 10,000 users in the same AWS account and you have an auditor come along
and basically wants to understand who those users are and what the password
policies are when they last use their password,
whether or not they've got multifactor authentication turned on, et cetera,
how do you go and export that data.
Well the answer is you can generate and download a credential report that lists
all of the users in your account in terms of what it show in terms of
passwords.
It will show whether a password is enabled when the password was last used when
it was last changed and when it must next be changed similarly with access
keys, which is basically like a password, but for the command line
and we will cover that off later on. Whether an access key is active,
whether it was-when it was last used,
when it was last rotated and what service the access key was last used
on and it can also generate a multifactor authentication information.
So basically will tell you whether or not MFA has been enabled or not.
Let's have a look at how we can do this in the AWS console. Okay.
So here I am in the AWS console. In order to do this,
we just go over to services and we scroll down and try and find Security,
Identity,
and compliance and go into IAM and you'll see our credential report is just
down here under access reports and literally all you do is click the download
report button that will download it as a CSV,
and then you'll be able to see all that information in there.
So onto my exam tips,
just remember if you see a question talking about an audit or basically a way of
exporting all your users inside IAM.
The easiest way to do this is by creating a credential report.
Credential reports will show things like passwords, access keys,
and multifactor authentication. Like I said, it was a really quick lecture,
but it definitely is an exam topic. So if you ever see a question like that,
just remember that you can use credential reports.
That's it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.