Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus.
And welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, We're going to look
at how we can buy a domain name.
Before we do that though,
I just want to explain what DNS is.
So DNS stands for Domain Name System,
and it works exactly like a phone book.
It's the process that computers use
to resolve domain names to IP addresses.
So if we were to go to, we know computers
or we www.wkcsv.com, basically what's happening
is a computer is looking this up
and it's resolving an IP address.
And then it's connecting your browser
to that website using that IP address.
So that's all that DNS is.
It's a way for computers to look up IP addresses.
You can see here, if you want
to look up Bruce Wayne,
it's pointing to please consult crime fighters
in the yellow pages.
So it doesn't have an IP address.
This has actually been an example
of what's called a C name record.
But we won't get into the individual DNS records
for the certified cloud practitioner.
It's not really relevant.
But you will need to understand
it inside out for the certified solutions architect,
associate and any associates going from there.
So in this lecture, what we're going
to do is we're going to look at how we
can buy a domain name.
We're going to be using Amazon's Route 53,
which is Amazon's DNS service.
For those of you that don't know Route 53,
the reason it's called that is you I'm sure
you all know Route 66,
which was the first sort of interstate highway
across the United States while DNS works on port 53.
So Amazon called it Route 53 after the famous highway.
So that's how it gets its name.
So this is 11, you will need to log into the AWS Console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Management Console.
I'm going to go down to services.
Now, Route 53 is under networking,
so networking and content delivery,
and you can see it in here.
So go ahead and click on Route 53.
Now, if you've never used Route 53 before,
you're going to get this splash screen,
you've got four different options available for you.
DNS management, traffic management,
availability monitoring, and domain registration.
We are going to cover off traffic management
and DNS management in a lot more detail
in the certified solutions architect associate course.
At this stage, we're just going to keep
it high-level, I'm going to show you how
to register a domain name.
So let's go ahead and get started.
And we're going to go and click in here, Register Domain.
So now you just need to choose a domain name,
it's entirely up to you, whether
or not you want to go ahead with this.
What I would say is if you are going
to choose a domain name,
make sure that you've got an S3 Bucket
that's available with the same name.
So I'm just going to go and do
acloudguru2019example.
Hopefully that's available dot com and that is available.
And then I'm just going to copy
and paste this into my clipboard,
and I'm going to open up S3 in a new tab.
Okay, so here I am in the S3 console,
I'm going to go ahead and create a bucket.
I'm going to call it acloudguru2019example.com.
And I'm going to go ahead and hit create.
And so you can see here,
it's got a dot com rather than just being example.
And the reason for that I'll show you a little bit later.
This is actually a really weird bug going
on right now with my S3 console in
that I cannot delete this bucket.
And when I actually go in and click
on it just as data not found,
but I'm sure it will fix itself.
So we've created this bucket.
If we actually go in and go to our properties,
what we want to do is enable static website hosting on it.
So use this bucket to host a website,
just to type in index.html and error.html,
and go ahead and hit save.
Once you've done that,
what we might want to do is just go over
to our permissions and we could apply
a bucket policy before we do that, though,
if we go back to here,
then what we want to do is just hit,
edit public access settings,
uncheck this box because
we want our website to be public.
So we don't want to block
all public access settings,
go ahead and hit save,
and then just type confirm in here.
Confirm and go ahead and hit that.
Now, you'll see the access settings canal
has changed to objects can be public.
And then if we go back in here and go
to our permissions and go to our Bucket Policy,
I want you to open up, download the resource,
the website in the resources section,
unzip it and grab the bucket policy.
So here's where I've unzipped it.
I'm just going to open this up in a new tab.
So in text wrangler, and I'm going
to copy it into my clipboard.
And then I'm just going to go over to S3 and back in S3,
I'm going to paste it in here.
And then the only thing we need
to update is the Amazon resource name.
So if we grab this here,
ARN and just paste it in here,
that will then make everything in our bucket public.
So we'll go ahead and hit save,
and you can see now it's a public bucket.
So if we go back over to the overview of the bucket,
we can now add our files.
So if we just go into upload
and I'm just gonna add the files,
index.html, and error.html.
So I've saved them in here, index and error,
go ahead and hit open and go ahead and hit upload.
Okay, so we now have our index
and our error.html inside our bucket, which is public.
So if you click on here,
yours should look exactly like this.
So it's got your top, the entire DNS name.
It says that the access is public,
and we've got our two files in there, index and error.
Let's go back over to Route 53.
So I'm going to go ahead and add this to my cart,
and then I'm going to scroll down and hit continue.
And then all I need to do is fill in these details
and go ahead and hit continue.
So I'm just going to pause the video
while I fill in this information.
So if you do go ahead and register a domain name,
you will get this screen and it
just says domain registration
might take up to three days.
Normally it isn't three days.
Normally it's just a couple of hours.
So I'm just gonna wait for a few hours
for my confirmation email to come through.
We can click on, go to domains
and you can just see
that domain registration is in progress.
So this is under pending requests,
but go over to my dashboard.
I can see it in here but I can't actually see
it as a hosted zone just yet.
So I'm just going to pull up the video.
I'm going to wait for
this domain registration to take effect.
Okay, so it's been a couple of hours.
I've received an email saying that
my domain has been registered.
So all I need to do is just hit this little refresh button
and there you go, domain registration successful.
So if we go into our hosted zones,
we'll now be able to see this domain
in there and a hosted zone is just basically
the domains that you own.
And if we click in here,
we can start configuring out DNS.
So first thing we would want to do
is just create a record set.
In here, you can see all the different types
of DNS records that you can create.
Don't worry if this looks a little bit scary,
we don't need to know it with
the certified cloud practitioner
where you will need to understand
the different record types is
the certified solutions architect
and any other sort of associate certs.
So I won't cover this all off right now.
The most important one is we want
this to be an alias record.
This means means that it's basically going
to be a naked domain name.
So there's no like www, it's like,
it's literally just acloudguru2019example.com.
And in here you can select your different targets.
So if we click in here, we can
now see our S3 website end point.
So S3 bucket must always have
the exact same name as our DNS records.
So as it's got to have the dot com at the end as well.
So I'm going to point the DNS records
to my S3 website,
and then I'm going to go ahead and hit create.
And that has now created, what's called an A record.
And essentially if I browse
to acloudguru2019example.com,
it's going to redirect me,
or it's going to serve
up S3-website-us-east-1.amazon.com,
and then it will be forward slash and then the bucket name.
So let's go ahead and browse to that website now.
So here I'm in my browser,
I'm just going to type acloudguru
then 2019example.com and hit enter.
And there we go.
We've got my S3 website.
So hello, Cloud Gurus,
the serverless, the future of cloud computing.
So this is a serverless website
because we're doing it off S3 rather than off EC2.
And I can go here and just check.
I can type in a dodgy domain name
and it should get an error message announced
serving up our error page as well.
So onto my exam tips.
So just to remember that Route 53
is Amazons DNS Service and DNS service
is simply a way that computers
can resolve a domain names to individual IP addresses.
Route 53 is global, very similar to IAM and S3.
You don't have to specify a region
when using a Route 53, but there's three,
you do specify a region that your bucket is in,
but you have a global view of it.
So that's what I mean by S3 being global.
And just remember with the Route 53,
you can use it to direct traffic all around the world.
So you could be directing your domains you know,
traffic to web servers in Sydney,
web servers in US-East-1,
web servers in London, et cetera.
And you can also use Route 53 to register a domain name.
So that's it for this lecture, guys,
if you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.