Okay hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going
to build a little web server.
So we are going to take our EC2 instance
that we created in the last couple of lectures
and we're going to turn it into a web server.
So this is our lab and you will need
to log into the AWS Console.
Okay so here I am in the AWS Console.
If we just go over to services
and click on EC2 which is under compute.
What we want to do is
we want to go ahead and get our IP address.
You can see your IP address just by clicking up here.
So IPv4 Public IP and just click
this little icon which will copy it over to your clipboard.
Once you've done that you will need to connect in,
so Windows users go ahead and use your SSH terminal.
For Mac users I'm just going to switch over to terminal.
Okay so here I am in my terminal window.
I'm just going to go to my downloads directory,
which is where private key is saved.
You can see it there.
And then what I'm going to do
is I'm just going to type in SSH ec2 then -user
then @ paste in my public IP
then do -i and then it's MyPrivateKey.pem.
Go ahead and hit enter.
And I've now connected to my little EC2 instance.
Going to elevate my privileges
to root by typing sudo su.
Going to clear the screen.
I might just want to quickly do a yum update
and see if there's been any new updates.
There hasn't so that is good.
And then what I want to do
is I want to install a program
to make this EC2 instance a web server.
And that program in called Apache.
So all I'm going to do is going to write yum,
install, httpd which is Apache then -yes.
That will go ahead and install httpd.
And then what we need to do is start the Apache service.
So we just need to turn it on.
So we just type in service httpd and then start.
And that has now started the httpd service.
If we go over to our cd/var/www html directory,
and type in L S there's nothing in there.
Now our cd/var/www/html directory
is our root directory to our website.
So any files we put in this directory
will be visible just by going to the public
IP address of the web server.
And don't worry if any of this is freaking you out.
You will not be tested on any
of this in the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
What you need to understand is things
like how do load balancers work for example.
And the way we can learn
that is just by playing around
with a few EC2 instances.
So that's really what we're trying to achieve here.
So I'm going to clear the screen.
And what I'm going to do is create a little web page.
So we're going to type in nano.
Nano is a text editor that allows you to create files.
And I'm going to call my file index.html.
And so this is the little text editor.
What I'm going to do is make a little web page.
So we do our open brackets html,
going to open up our body.
We're going to put a header in here.
And it's just going to say, "Hello, Cloud Gurus.
"This is Web Server" we'll make it one word.
"Web Server One."
And then we're going to end our header.
We're going to end our body.
And we're going to end our html.
So it's basically the simplest little web page possible.
Then what I'm going to do is I'm just going to hold control
X. It will then say, "Hey do you want to save?"
Hit yes to save and the hit enter
to save it as html the index.html.
If we just type in LS you'll be able to see it there.
So the next thing we need to do
is just go over to our web browser.
Okay so got to little web browser opened up in here.
If I just paste in my public IP address.
And there we go.
Hello Cloud Gurus, this is web server one.
So we have now created a little html page
on our EC2 instance.
We've turned our EC2 instance into a web server.
And we are now able to go and view that webpage.
So that is it for this lecture guys.
In the next lecture what we're going to do
is we're going to create web server two.
We're going to do this using a bootstrap script.
So teach you how to script a list.
You don't need to keep logging in and doing it yourself.
And then what we're going to do
is going to start having a look at
how we can use load balancers.
So if you got the time please join me in the next lecture.
Thank you.