Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at CloudFront. So what is CloudFront?
Well, CloudFront is Amazon's content delivery network or CDN,
and a content delivery network is a system of distributed servers or network
that delivers webpages and other web content to a user based on their
geographical locations of the user, the origin of the webpage,
and a content delivery server. So what does that actually mean? Well,
let's look at how the internet works without a CDN.
So let's say we've got a file server.
It's sitting in London and it has a video file on it and let's say that file is
about one or two gigs in size. So it's quite a large file.
I've got our users from all over the world from North America, South America,
South Africa, Australia,
and India and they want to watch this video and the way they do it is they
connect into London and they pull that video down and it can take an awful lot
of time depending on where they are, depending on their connection speeds
and it can be quite a slow process.
So we have these things called CDN networks and they make the whole process a
lot faster and before we look at how they work,
we just need to explore three key pieces of terminology.
So the first one is that we have edge locations and if you remember from the
start of this course,
we started talking about edge locations and there's always more edge locations
than there are regions and this is basically the location where content will be
cached.
So this is where we cache our content and this is separate to an AWS region
or availability zone. We then have our origin,
and this is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute.
So this normally will be an S3 bucket,
but it could also be an EC2 instance or an elastic load balancer,
or even Route 53.
And then we have our distributions and this is actually the name given to the
CDN, which consists of a collection of edge locations.
So let's look at how this works from a CDN perspective. So here we are,
we've got our origin, which is our S3 bucket,
and that's where our files are sitting.
So that's where our large video files of over a gig in size.
We then have our users spread all over the world. Now,
if CloudFront is turned on, this is what happens.
Our users will first query the edge location and they will basically say,
Hey, do you have a copy of this file? I really, really want to watch this video,
but it's about a gig in size. Now, the edge locations,
because this is the first user that's ever queried that a file,
the edge locations will not have a copy.
And what they'll do is they'll connect to the origin and they'll download the
file to the edge location and the edge of the file is stored at that
edge location and is then streamed to the user.
Then when a second user comes in and queries the same file,
that file is already cached at the edge location and that
second user doesn't have to then download it from the origin.
It doesn't have to then be downloaded from the S3 bucket in London.
They can actually just it from an edge location nearest them.
So in America or in South South America or South Africa or Australia,
or in India or Singapore, APAC region, et cetera, et cetera.
So that's how CloudFront and CDNs work.
The first user is always going get that added latency.
You can't get around that,
but once the file is cached here at the edge location,
all other users after that will be able to access it.
And the file is cached for a number of a length of time and that's specified by
a thing called TTL or time to live and TTLs are always given in
seconds and usually you would have a TTL of about 48 hours.
So basically the 48 hours after this user has access to that file.
It's going to be cached here at the edge location for other users to be able to
access it. So CloudFront can be used to deliver your entire website,
including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content,
using a global network of edge locations and requests for your content are
automatically routed to the nearest edge location.
So content delivered is always delivered with the best possible performance.
So with CloudFront is two different types of distributions.
You've got your web distribution, which is the one that we're going to use,
and this is typically used for websites. And then we've got RTMP.
This is used for media streaming for flash,
and it's not a commonly used all that much anymore.
Most people use the web distributions. So that being said,
let's go ahead and set up a CloudFront distribution.
We'll need to log into the AWS console. Okay. So here I am in the AWS console,
I need to go over to services. Now you won't find CloudFront under storage.
CloudFront is actually a networking tool,
so you're going to find it under networking.
So if we scroll down and need to find it, network and content delivery,
and you can see here CloudFront,
so it's a content delivery network and what we need to do is go ahead and create
our first distribution. So, like I said, in the last slide,
we've got two different types of distribution.
So we've got web and we've got RTMP.
RTMP is used for Adobe flash media servers.
RTMP protocol completely beyond the scope of this course.
We're just going to do a simple web distribution.
In here we've got our origin's domain name and if we actually click in,
you'll be able to see an S3 bucket, I'm going to use the Ryan and Faye S3 .
bucket. Our origin path, basically inside out S3 bucket.
We can have folders as our origins.
but we're going to just use the entire bucket as our origin,
rather than a folder within our bucket and here we can restrict bucket access.
So we can say, Hey,
we only want people to be able to access these files using the CloudFront
distribution link. We don't want them to be able to access it using S3.
I'm not going to do that. I'm just going to hit no,
we're going to basically leave everything as default. In here
you can actually say, Hey, I only want them to connect over HTTPS.
I don't want them to use HTTP,
but I'm just going to leave everything as default.
In here this is where set out time to live.
So this is how long our objects will be cached at our edge locations.
I'm going to leave them all as default and basically I'm going to leave
everything as default and go all the way down and hit create distribution and so
now it's already generated a domain name for our distributions and distributions
can take an awful lot of time to set up.
This will probably not the status won't change for at least half an hour.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to pause the video.
I'm going to wait for this distribution to be deployed,
and then we'll go ahead and have a look at how we can use it. Okay.
So it's been over an hour. This has now changed to deployed.
So it has now deployed. In here I can grab my domain name.
You can just move this across,
and it's always a random series of letters and numbers then .cloudfront.net.
So I'm going to copy this into my clipboard.
In order to resolve the actual files,
what am I going to do is just go back to services.
I'm going to go over to S3 and we're going to go find out origin.
My origin is of course my Ryan and Faye bucket.
I'm going to click in here and I'm going to try and get my Faye Ryan hyphen
Replay file. So I'm just going to type this into my browser.
So here I am in my browser, I'm going to paste in my CloudFront distribution,
and then I'm going to just do forward slash and it was called Faye I'll just
double check.
It was Faye Ryan hyphen replay Faye Ryan hyphen
replay.jpg.
I'm going to go ahead and hit enter and that has downloaded fairly quickly.
If I do a command R or a control F5, if you're using windows.
So we're doing a force refresh.
You can see it's loading basically instantaneously.
So it has cached this at an edge location nearest me and now basically,
instead of going over to where this bucket was created,
I think it was in Northern Virginia.
It's actually getting this from a London edge location.
So it goes incredibly quickly. So let's go to my exam tips.
So in terms of my exam tips,
just remember the three different types of terminology in CloudFront.
So we've got our edge location.
This is the location where the content will be cached.
This is separate to an AWS region or availability zone.
Our origin is just the origin of all of tthe files that the CDN will distribute.
So this can either be an S3 bucket or an EC2 instance or an elastic load
balancer, or Route 53,
and then our distribution and that's simply the name given to the CDN,
which is a collection of edge locations. So we created our distribution at now,
and then we have two different types of distributions.
We've got a web distribution,
which is the one we just created and then we've got RTMP,
which is used for Adobe flash media RTMP protocol is used for media
streaming.
One other thing you should note is the edge locations are not read only.
You can write to them too,
so you can actually put an object to them and so you can use S3 transfer
acceleration, which we looked at in previous lectures,
and that's basically using your edge locations to write files up to
S3. So bear that in mind as well.
Also remember that objects are cached for the life of the TTL for the time to
live and TTL is always in seconds, and you can clear your cache objects,
but you are going to be charged for doing that. So just to clean up,
we'll go back over to services, go and find, CloudFront,
which is under your network and content delivery and go ahead and click on
CloudFront in order to delete this distribution first, you must disable it.
Go ahead and hit yes. Disabled. It's going to take a while to disable again.
It could be 20 minutes or so once that has been disabled,
you can just click in here and click delete.
So go ahead and delete that because we don't need this for the rest of the
course. So that is it for this lecture. Guys, if you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.