Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going
to get our hands dirty with RDS.
So we're gonna go in and provision an RDS instance.
So in terms of what we're going to do,
just see if you can follow along.
So we're gonna provision an RDS instance.
What we're then going to do is open
up MySQL Port to our Web-DMZ security group.
This essentially just allows our web server to talk
to our database server via the port number 3306,
which is the MySQL Port.
And essentially, you're just basically
opening up a firewall,
allowing your web server to talk to your database server.
We're then gonna go ahead and create that web service.
So we're gonna create an EC2 instance.
We're then going to install WordPress
using a Boot Strap script.
So a Boot Strap script is just going to automate
the entire installation of WordPress.
You don't have to type it all out manually.
And then going to register the EC2 instance
to a target group.
This will allow us to put our EC2 instance
behind an application load balancer.
And when you create an application load balancer,
instead of having an IP address for your EC2 instance,
you get a DNS name,
and that DNS name just maps
the application load balancer back to your EC2 instance.
Now, the reason we're doing this is 'cause what we want
to do is create multiple EC2 instances
and be able to go in and terminate them.
And when you install WordPress, by default,
what it will do is just look at the IP address
that was provisioned when you set up that EC2 instance,
but you don't want that,
because the IP address is going to change all the time
when you delete, you know, different EC2 instances
or when you add another EC2 instance.
So you don't want to go off an IP address.
You want to go off a website name.
And you could go and set this up in route 53,
but we're just going to use the application load balancer's
website name or DNS name.
So what we're gonna do is just go into WordPress
and update the IP address to use
the application load balancer's DNS name.
And then finally, we're gonna take a snapshot
of our EC2 instance.
So this is just like taking a photo,
and we're going to use that snapshot later on
to create an auto-scaling group.
An auto-scaling group will just scale
out automatically based on load
and other requirements that we set.
And essentially, this will allow us to have a fault tolerant
WordPress site in the cloud.
So that's what we're gonna do in this lab.
If you do get stuck for some reason,
and it doesn't work, don't freak out.
You're not gonna be tested on any of this
in the certified cloud practitioner exam.
This lab is just designed to give you some hands on
experience with RDS.
And essentially, it's basically, you know,
you might want to run your own blog site
at the end of this course.
A lot of students have gone on and done that
once they've learned how to install WordPress, et cetera.
But if for some reason you can't get the lab to work,
don't worry.
Like I said, you're never gonna be tested on this
in the certified cloud practitioner exam.
So this is a lab,
and you will need to log into the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS management console.
The first thing I want to do is just go over to EC2,
and we're gonna go ahead and delete that web server
that we set up a few lectures ago.
It's called WebServer01.
So just go in and go to your actions
and go ahead and hit terminate
and go ahead and hit yes terminate.
That is now terminating that EC2 instance.
Next thing we're gonna do is we're gonna go
over to services, I'm gonna go ahead and click on RDS.
And what we're going to do is provision an RDS instance.
What I'm gonna do is just close this little window here,
and I'm gonna go ahead and hit create database.
Now you can see here that Amazon
will push Aurora straightaway.
It's the default option.
Amazon Aurora is Amazon's own proprietary database.
It basically has six copies of your data spread
across three availability zones.
It is complete overkill for what we want.
We're just gonna go ahead and do MySQL.
And then what we're gonna do is we're going to scroll down,
and we're going to use the template production.
Now you may just want to use free tier.
It's completely up to you.
But production will give us a high availability,
so we'll be able to deploy this
across multiple availability zones.
I'm gonna scroll down, database instance identifier,
I'm just going to change this to acloudguru,
and I'm gonna paste that into my clipboard,
so I can paste it everywhere.
So this is the DB instance identifier.
So this is what you'll see in RDS.
Then we would need to go ahead
and create our usernames.
So instead of admin, I'm just gonna do acloudguru.
My master password, you can generate,
auto generate a password, we don't need to do that.
I'm just gonna do my master password
as acloudguru and then acloudguru.
I've got our DB instance size,
that's currently set to standard classes,
but these are very large ones.
What we want to do is just go over
to our (indistinct) classes,
and you want basically the smallest one possible.
So we're going to do it db.t2.micro.
So go ahead and click on that.
Let's scroll down,
and then what we're going to do is instead
of provision to IOPS, we're just gonna do
general purpose SSD to keep it cheap and cheerful.
We don't really need storage auto-scaling,
but you can leave it on if you want.
I'm gonna scroll down,
and we're gonna have a multi-AZ deployment,
so we're gonna create a standard standby instance.
Scrolling down, we're going to deploy it
into our default VPC.
And here it's a bit tricky.
They've changed the UI.
So you need to click in additional configuration.
We need to give our database a name.
So again, I'm just gonna paste in acloudguru.
If you don't do this, essentially,
it won't create the first database,
and then WordPress won't be able to connect to it.
So make sure you paste in or give this a name, acloudguru.
You can call it anything you want,
but just I'd keep it as acloudguru,
'cause it makes our lives a lot easier.
And then we'll scroll all the way down,
leave everything else as is,
and then what we want to do is go ahead
and hit create database.
Now this will cost us $27 a month if we leave it running.
You probably only want to leave this up
for, you know, an hour or two,
just so you can see how it all works.
Let's go ahead and hit create database.
And that is now creating our database.
This can take some time.
It can take up to 10 or 15 minutes
to create an RDS instance, so just be patient.
What I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna go ahead
and pause the video while we wait
for this to go live.
So the status will change.
Right now, you can see it's creating.
I'm just gonna pause the video here
and wait for this RDS instance to come back up.
Okay, so that RDS database is now available.
You can see it in here.
And if we click on it, we'll be able to see a summary.
So we can see in here, we've got things
like our CPU utilization, the current activity,
so how many connections it has.
If we actually click on monitoring in here,
we'll be able to see all our different CloudWatch metrics,
so things like CPU utilization, memory,
write IOPS, et cetera, et cetera.
We click back on connectivity and security,
we'll get our database end point.
And we're gonna have to basically tell WordPress
this address, and then WordPress will connect
to this database and start writing files to it.
Before we do that though, there's a couple of things
that we do need to do.
We need to go to our VPC security groups,
so just click in here.
And what we want to do is we want to open
up a port for MySQL traffic.
So if we just go to edit, and we're gonna add a role,
and we're gonna do a custom TCP rule,
and the port range is in here.
If you do ever forget your ports,
you can just scroll down in here,
you can see MySQL and Aurora,
so that will automatically populate
the port range with 3306.
And then what we want to do is we want to open this
up to our Web-DMZ security groups.
So if you type in SG or just type in S,
you'll be able to see your Web-DMZ security group,
and this Web-DMZ is the one
that has port 80 open to the world.
And that's where our little EC2 instance is going to sit
when we provision it in a second.
So go ahead and click on that,
and let's go ahead and hit save.
Now that we've done that,
we are automatically back in EC2,
so let's click on the EC2 dashboard,
and we're gonna go ahead and launch an instance.
And this instance, we're gonna use the Amazon_Linux_2_AMI.
I'm gonna use general purpose,
and we are going to leave everything as default,
except we're going to scroll down,
we're going to go to advanced details,
and in here we're going to pass it a Boot Strap script.
Now this is the Boot Strap script in here.
It is way beyond the scope of the certified cloud
practitioner to understand what it's doing,
but essentially, it's just installing Apache,
PHP, and PHP MySQL, and then essentially,
it's going in, and it's downloading WordPress.
It's doing a whole bunch of permissions changes,
and essentially it's extracting WordPress
and then copying it, installing it,
then removing the zip file.
And then here it's changing the permissions,
and then it's starting the Apache service.
And it's making sure that if our EC2 instance comes,
you know, if it restarts,
that the Apache service will come back on.
So this is available in the resources section of the course.
Just copy that into your clipboard.
And then we just want to scroll back down here
and paste that in.
And next, we're gonna go ahead and add our storage.
Gonna leave everything else as default.
Our tags, you might just want to give it a name.
So give this a name WebServer01.
And we'll go ahead and hit next.
And in here, I'm going to select
an existing security group,
so I'm gonna put this in my Web-DMZ security group.
And we, if you remember,
our default security group now allows MySQL traffic into,
from our Web-DMZ security group.
So next go ahead and hit review and launch
and go ahead and launch,
and then select a key pair that you have.
So I'm gonna do a second key pair that I've got,
and there we go.
We're just going to launch our EC2 instance.
So if we go in and view our instances, you can see it here.
It is installing.
I'm just going to pause the video
and wait for this to come up,
but you should be able to go to that public IP address
and see the WordPress installation page.
So let's just go ahead and pause the video.
So that EC2 instance is now available.
We're just going to go and copy our public IP address
into our clipboard.
And if you just open up another tab and paste that in,
you should be able to get this screen.
So this is the WordPress installation screen,
and all we need to do is go ahead and hit let's go.
If for some reason it is timing out,
just check your security group rules
and make sure that port 80 is open.
In here, we've got to give it our database name.
So if you remember, we just did acloudguru
for everything to keep it simple.
So acloudguru, acloudguru, and then the database hosts,
now when you see local hosts,
that means it's hosted locally on your EC2 instance.
Ours is not, ours is hosted on RDS.
So we need to go back over to the RDS screen.
So I'm back over in the console.
I'm just gonna go down to RDS under databases.
And what I'm gonna do is I need to get
my database end point.
So if we click on DB instances and then our database,
and we go to connectivity and security,
we've got our end point here.
So this is our end point in here.
Copy that into your clipboard.
And then what we want to do is just paste it in here.
And then we're gonna go ahead and hit submit.
So you'll see this screen.
It says, "Sorry, but I can't write the wp-config.php.file."
So what we're gonna need to do is we're going to need
to SSH into our EC2 instance
and write this out manually.
So go ahead and open up your terminal window.
So let's just quickly go back over
to our AWS console in here,
and we're gonna go and grab our public IP address.
So go over to EC2, one, running instance,
and in here, we're going to grab the public IP address.
If you just click down here, you get the copy to clipboard.
Now I'm in my terminal window.
So just gonna type SSH and then ec2-user.
So ec2-user, and then at,
and then paste in your public IP address there.
And then minus I, and then the name of your key,
so mine was called MyKP1.pem.
Yours will be called something different, no doubt.
And there we go with SSH in,
and then we just want to do sudo su
to get our privileges to route.
Just gonna clear the screen.
And I'm gonna go over to my /var/www/html directory.
And in here, what we need to do is we're going to do nano
and then wp-config.php.
So this is going to create our wp-config.php file.
And if you go back over to your browser
and just copy this into your clipboard,
gonna paste it in here, you might get this error message,
just go ahead and hit paste.
And then I'm going to do control X
and hit yes to save and then hit enter.
And if we then just cat our wp-config,
so cat basically is command to read that file.
You'll be able to see that it has now saved that file.
So we should be all good to go.
Let's go back over to our browser.
So I'm back in the browser,
and I'm gonna go ahead and hit run the installation.
And in here, we're ready to go.
So I'm gonna do the site title as A Cloud Guru.
My username is just going to be acloudguru
to keep everything simple.
And likewise, my password.
I'm going to use a weak password, just acloudguru.
And then in here you can do your email.
I'm just gonna do test@test.com,
but you might want to use a real email.
And go ahead and hit install WordPress.
Now, hopefully this will go ahead and install,
and there you go.
You can see success.
So WordPress has been installed.
Now what that's actually done is it started
to write files to our RDS instance.
And if we go in here, we can click log in.
This will take us over to the login page,
and then I can type in acloudguru and then acloudguru,
and go ahead and hit login.
And there we go.
We are now in the administrative section of WordPress.
Now if we go over to our settings
and just click on settings,
you'll be able to see the URL here is our public IP address.
Now, the issue with that is that public IP address
is tied to our EC2 instance.
So if we were to terminate that EC2 instance,
we'd get a new public IP address.
And WordPress, this is actually saved in the database.
And WordPress would, basically will stop working,
because it saved this public IP address in the database.
So we need it not to be a public IP
that changes all the time.
What we need it is to be a DNS address.
And our DNS address will stay fixed to something.
So it might be a URL name.
It might be hellocloudgurus.com.
You might want to go to, you know,
route 53 and register one,
or the other alternative is you set
up an application load balancer
and get the DNS address of that.
And that's exactly what we're gonna do now.
So I'm back in the AWS console.
Let's go over to EC2,
and we're gonna go down to our target groups,
and in here, we've got our target group that was associated
with our load balancer, MyALB.
And so what we want to do is we want to go in
and to click on targets,
and then we're gonna go ahead and register a target.
So if we go in here and click to this one,
this is our web server with WordPress installed,
I'm gonna go ahead and add it to our registered targets.
And we're gonna go ahead and hit save.
Now this will take a little bit of time,
because it's got to pass the health check.
So I'm just gonna pause the video
and wait for this instance to come up.
So if you actually scroll up,
you can actually make this a bit bigger
so you can see it better.
And then what I'm gonna do is just hit
the refresh button up here,
and we can now see that that's healthy.
So the next thing we need to do is go
and grab our load balancer.
So its DNS name is in here, or alternatively,
you can make this a bit bigger
and then just grab its DNS name in there.
And you can click on this icon
and copy it into your clipboard.
Now we'll go back over to WordPress.
So I'm back in WordPress,
and I just want to delete this IP address,
and I'm gonna paste in the DNS name.
So again, delete the IP address.
Make sure you keep the HTTP though.
And then scroll down,
and we'll be able to go and save the changes.
Now that's actually saving to your RDS database,
and you can see that that has now saved in here.
So that has saved to RDS.
So if we lose our EC2 instance now,
the great thing is we're no longer tied to that IP address.
We can just go to this DNS name,
and we'll be able to, you know,
access our WordPress site.
We go over to our posts,
let's just go and create a new post.
So I'm gonna add new.
And what I'm gonna do is just write something like
hello cloud gurus as my new post.
So this is how you do it.
You just click up here, add a block.
You might want to add a heading,
and it just be, "Hello Cloud Gurus!"
And I'm gonna go ahead and hit preview.
And then we can go ahead
and go ahead and publish that.
We just go into edit post,
and we'll go ahead and hit publish
and hit publish again.
And it's now publishing.
So let's test this by changing the domain name.
So if I come back up here,
I'm going to just paste in our DNS name.
So you can see it in there, hit enter.
And there we go.
We can see our post hello cloud gurus.
That has now saved, and we're connecting to the DNS name
of the elastic load balancer instead of connecting
into the IP address of our EC2 instance.
Okay, so the very last thing we're gonna do is create
an image of our EC2 instance.
We're gonna use this image when we are using auto-scaling,
and it means we don't need to run
that Boot Strap script anymore.
We don't need to go in and,
you know, install WordPress again.
And so the way we do it is we just click in
our one running instance, click on actions,
go to image, and go ahead and create our image.
We're gonna need to give it a name,
so call it MyWordPressGoldTemplate.
So we're gonna use this as our gold template
for our auto-scaling groups.
And what we're gonna do is go ahead and hit create image.
Now creating an image can take some time.
You can see your images in here under AMIs,
so this is going to go from pending to active.
And that is it really.
In the next lecture,
what we're gonna do is look
at how we can set up auto-scaling groups.
And essentially what we're gonna do is deploy
our EC2 instance across two availability zones.
Right now, EC2 instance is just in one availability zone,
but there are RDS instances across two.
So we're gonna make this completely multi-AZ
and fault tolerant as well.
So let's just recap what we did in this lecture.
So what we did in this lab was we provisioned
our RDS instance.
We then opened up MySQL port
to our Web-DMZ security group,
and that was on port 3306.
We then created an EC2 instance,
and we installed WordPress using a Boot Strap script.
We then registered the EC2 instance to a target group,
so essentially we put it behind
our application load balancer,
and then we updated WordPress to the DNS name
of our application load balancer.
And then we took a snapshot of that EC2 instance.
So always remember, my exam tips going into your exam,
RDS has two key features.
We've got multi-AZ for disaster recovery,
and then we've got read replicas for performance.
And also just remember things like SQL server, MySQL,
just remember the different database technologies
that are available under RDS.
You can also install MySQL or SQL server
locally on your EC2 instance.
You can run databases on your EC2 instances,
but they won't be multi-AZ
unless you do some kind of, you know,
basically a replication between them.
So that is it for this lecture.
Hopefully you've learned an awful lot.
Don't worry if you did get stuck.
This is just a proof of concept.
It's just important that you understand the concepts
behind what it is we're doing.
If for some reason it didn't work,
don't beat yourself up,
and we'll try and help you on the discussion forums.
So if you have any questions, please let us know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.