Okay.
Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look
at Tagging and Resource Groups.
So we have been tagging our EC2 instances
as we've been going throughout this course,
but you probably have terminated them already.
So what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to show you quickly a little demo of tags.
Before we do, let's go onto what tags are.
So, tags are basically just key value pairs
attached to AWS resources.
And they basically contain metadata.
And metadata is just data about data.
And sometimes tags can be inherited.
So, if we're using CloudFormation, for example,
and we decide to tag the Department Finance
to a particular CloudFormation stack.
When that CloudFormation stack
provisions resources, such as EC2 instances,
or RDS instances, et cetera,
that department of finance tag
will be inherited by all those resources.
And so resource groups basically just make it
easy to group your resources,
using the tags that are assigned to them.
So you can group resources that share one or more tags.
Resource groups can contain information,
such as our region, our name, our employee ID,
our department, et cetera, et cetera.
We're going to have a quick look at that
in a lab in two seconds.
And so tags can also contain specific information.
So let's say for EC2, could contain
our public and our private IP addresses.
For ELB, it could have our port configurations.
What ports are we going to open up on our
elastic load balancers?
Or, for RDS, it could contain our database engines,
could tell you that this is a MySQL database,
this is an Aurora database, et cetera, et cetera.
So let's go over to the AWS console
and have a quick look at Tags and Resource Groups,
as well as the Tag Editor Feature.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Management Console.
And you can see resource groups in here.
And we've got various different options.
We've got our saved groups.
We can create a group.
So this is a resource group.
We can do our tag editor,
or we can create a classic group.
Now before I go and do that,
what I'm going to do is, I'm going to go over to EC2
and I'm going to provision a whole bunch
of EC2 instances around the world.
I'm going to provision
four different EC2 instances around the world.
You can watch the first one.
So, we're in Northern Virginia,
I'm going to go to EC2
and I'm just going to provision an instance.
And I'm just going to use the Amazon Linux AMI,
Amazon Linux 2 AMI,
and I'm just going to do the standard.
And I'm going to leave everything as default,
go ahead hit Next for our storage,
going to leave that as default.
And I'm going to start adding my tags.
So I'm going to add four tags.
So my name, this is going to be WebServer01.
And then I'm going to add another tag,
so we'll say Department.
So this could belong to the Finance Department.
And then I'm going to add another tag,
this could be my region.
So in here I could do Northern Virginia,
just to make it easy.
And then in here I will do my Employee ID.
And I'm just going to enter a bunch
of random letters and numbers.
So this allows me to see that this is a web server,
owned by the finance department,
it's in Northern Virginia,
and the person who provisioned it
is this Employee ID.
Next I'm just going to go in and do my
standard security groups, so WebDMZ.
I'm going to go ahead and hit Review and Launch.
And I'm going to go ahead and launch this
and using my existing Key Pair.
And I'm just going to repeat
that exact same, you know, motion
for the next three different regions.
So I'm going to spin up
another three EC2 instances.
And I'm going to put them in random regions
around the world.
Now you don't have to do this,
you can just watch this video
and you will understand how
Tagging and Resources Groups work by the end.
So I'm just going to pause the video,
while I provision another three EC2 instances.
Okay, so I've provisioned my instances.
I've done it in four places around the world.
And it's actually quite interesting what's happened.
So I've done it in Northern Virginia,
I've done it in Sydney,
I've done it in, I think, London,
and then I've also done it in Stockholm.
Now, at the time of recording,
Stockholm is a very new region,
it's only a couple of weeks old,
since it's come up online.
And depending on when you watch this video,
this may change for you.
And so I want to show you Resource Groups.
And Resource Groups is basically broken down
into two different categories.
You've got Tag Editor
and then you've got Classic Groups.
And if you click on Create A Group,
here or here,
it's going to open up exactly the same page
that's in Systems Manager,
which we'll cover that in a second.
But let's just start with Tag Editor.
So if we click on Tag Editor,
in here we can select our regions.
And I'm going to go through and select every region,
but notice that Stockholm is not yet a region
that is available for Tag Editor.
So you will find that when new regions
come up online, they might not have the full,
you know, functionality immediately.
It can take some time.
So I've selected all my regions,
in here I'm going select my Resource Types.
I could just have EC2,
I could have Instances Individually,
or I could have all Resource Types.
I'm going to do all Resource Types
and I'm going to Sort By Department.
And in here we can say Tagged With Any Value,
but we could just say the Finance Department,
or Marketing, or whatever.
And then what you'd need to do
is just click on Find Resources.
And straightaway I can see my six EC2 instances,
or rather three EC2 instances
and three EBS volumes, spread around the world.
I can't see Stockholm here yet,
because it is not a region that is supported
for this particular service just yet.
And so I can actually drill in,
so I can say, okay, show me this department,
or this EC2 instances
owned by the Finance Department.
I can click in here and see all the other tags,
so I can see which employee provisioned it,
what the name of the resource is,
and then the region that it's in.
And then I can also click Manage Resources
and that will drop me into the AWS Console,
drop me straight into the EC2 instance screen
and I can go in
and make any changes there that I want.
So Tag Editor is a great way
of finding all your different tags.
And back at that Tag Editor screen,
what they can do is,
let's say I want the Finance Department,
I can go ahead and create
a new Tag Key for the Finance EC2 instance.
And I can select multiple values in here.
So Tag Editor is a great way of adding,
or being able to find your resources,
as well as go in and create new tags.
Now if we go back over to Resource Groups,
one thing I will by the way just point out,
is that Tag Editor is a global service.
So this is global,
you can't do it on a per region basis.
You control the regions in here and sometimes,
like I said, the newer regions do not exist.
Now if we go over to our Create A Group,
that will open up this screen here.
And in here we can create a Query-Based Group.
So we can go ahead and create a group,
we're going to do it based on tags.
Notice up here, my region has changed
to Northern Virginia.
So let's go over to EU Stockholm,
which is where I created one.
And then in here I'm going to go ahead and do,
select Resource Type,
so we're going to say All Supported, that's fine.
And then in here my Tags,
so I'm just going to write Department.
And then I'm going to go ahead and hit Add.
And then I'm going to scroll all the way down
and we'll call this my, let's say, Department Stockholm.
So what departments have resources in Stockholm.
And I'm going to go ahead and hit Create Group.
And that has now created a group.
And I can see in here my Group Resources,
so I've got an EC2 instance and an EC2 volume.
Now what is really cool,
is if we copy and paste this into our clipboard.
And then we can go over to Execute Automaton.
So this is AWS Systems Manager
and it allows you to manage
a whole bunch of EC2 instances at scale,
so you could have literally thousands
of EC2 instances.
And you can go in
and do some form of automation in there.
So let's go ahead and what we'll do is
we'll go AWS Stop EC2 Instance.
We're going run it
against this Resource Group.
So I'm going to now say,
I want to stop my EC2 instance.
We're going to execute the entire automation at once.
And we're just going to leave everything as Default.
Just up here we're just going to go to our Targets
and we're going to go to Resource Group.
And then we're going to paste our name
of our Resource Group in here,
so it's our Department Stockholm.
So basically what we're doing, is we're going
to stop every EC2 instance in Stockholm.
And go ahead and hit Execute Automation.
What have I forgotten?
Select Parameter, so in here it's based
off our Instance ID.
So go ahead and hit Execute Automation.
And so that has now executed
and it has been initiated.
And you can see the overall status is Pending.
And if, oh, it's almost In Progress,
if we go over to our Services,
click on EC2,
make sure we're in the Stockholm Region,
click on here.
We can see that this service has now been stopped.
So that's the two differences between them.
When you're using your Groups,
which is part of the Classic Groups,
it's on a per region basis.
So there is no global group.
Whereas Tag Editor does work globally.
And it's good to show you at the moment
that you know, Tag Editor
can take a little bit of time
to be updated with the new regions.
So right now Stockholm is not supported for Tag Editor.
I'm sure by the time you watch this video it probably is.
So onto my exam tips, so what are tags?
Well, tags are simply key values pairs
that are attached to AWS resources.
They consist of metadata,
which is simply data about data.
And tags can sometimes be inherited.
So when using CloudFormation,
for example, all the resources that you create
using CloudFormation
will be tagged with the tags that you set
when you first deploy
that CloudFormation template.
And just remember that Resource Groups
make it easier to group your resources
using the tags that are assigned to them.
And you can group resources that share one or more tags.
And we looked at an example where
we could use a region, or we could use names,
or we could even use health checks,
or departments or employee IDs, et cetera, et cetera.
And then just remember that using
Resource Groups, you can also apply automation
to resources tagged with specific tags.
For example, we stopped all our EC2 instances
in the Stockholm region in our lab.
And then Resources Groups,
in combination with AWS Systems Manager,
allow us to control and execute automation
against entire fleets of EC2 instances,
all at the push of a button.
So they put a stop to all our EC2 instances in Stockholm.
I realize there was only one in our example,
but if we'd gone on and added 100 different EC2 instances,
you can see how useful
Resource Groups and AWS Systems Manager can be,
because we can stop all those.
Rather than clicking on them individually,
we can just click one button
and stop 100 EC2 instances.
So that is where
Resources Groups and AWS Systems Manager
can be really, really useful.
And then also, just remember
AWS Systems Manager and Resource Groups
are on a regional basis.
Tag Editor is a global service
that allows us to discover resources
and to add additional tags to them as well.
And then newer regions may take some time
to be compatible with Tag Editor,
so we saw that with Stockholm.
Hopefully by the time you watch this video,
the Stockholm region would have been added.
So that is it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move onto the next lecture.
Thank you.