Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture. In this lecture,
we're going to look at our three different storage options for AWS
that we've learned about so far. So S3, EBS, and EFS,
and basically in the exam, you're going to get scenario-based questions,
which will test you as to what storage medium you should
use. So we're going to start with just covering what S3 is.
We'll go through the basics.
We'll look at EBS and then what EFS is and then we'll look at the key
differences and we'll move on to our exam tips.
So you probably remember what S3 is, but if not here is a reminder.
It provides developers and it teams with a secure, durable,
and highly scalable object storage.
It's easy to use with a simple web services interface to store and retrieve any
amount of data from anywhere on the web.
So this is a great place to store your objects or store your files.
That's what you would use S3 for.
So every time you hear about storing pictures or videos
or any kind of file storage, you would use S3.
You can't install an operating system on S3 and you can't install a
database on S3. That's not what it's used for.
So this is used for basically it's used for flat objects.
It's used for static files, things that don't change.
So that's what S3 is. It's a safe place to store your files.
It's object based storage,
and the data is spread across multiple devices and facilities.
So what's EBS? Well, EBS stands for elastic block store.
This is where you have storage volumes and think of EBS as just a virtual hard
disk in the cloud and this is a place where you have persistent block
storage volumes for use with EC2 instances in the cloud.
And EBS is perfect for installing operating systems on it's perfect for
installing databases on et cetera. That's what it's designed for.
Just think of it, like I said, as a virtual hard disk in the cloud. Yes,
you can also store files and stuff on EBS.
but you won't get the same levels of redundancy as with S3,
and it's a bit harder to make those files publicly accessible than using
S3. So if you see any question about storing objects,
I want you to think of S3.
If you say any question about installing operating systems or databases think
EBS. The good thing about EBS is it's automatically replicated.
So each EBS volume is automatically replicated within its availability
zone to protect you from component failure.
So you still get some high availability,
but it's still within one availability zone and EBS, like I said,
is a virtual hard disk in the cloud. EFS is elastic file system,
and this is a file storage service for for EC2
instances. So it's very much the same thing as EBS in that.
it's a place where you can you know, go in and install a database, for example.
but it doesn't come as a set size.
So if you install a database on EFS and it's like 10 gigs,
and then you start adding more and more data to that EFS will automatically grow
or resize itself to fit that database.
That's why it's called elastic file system.
So this is a great use case for this will be things like content management
systems,
file servers and the cool thing about EFS is multiple EC2 instances
can access the same EFS store. So again,
if you hear anything setting up a content management system or a centralized
file server you probably would be using EFS.
EFS is easy to use.
It provides you with a simple interface that allows you to create and configure
file systems quickly and easily.
So the difference between EFS and EBS is that EFS is elastic.
It automatically adjust the size as you add to it, or remove files from it.
So going into the exam,
just remember that S3 is used for storing flat files like objects.
So things like pictures, documents, videos, et cetera.
You do not install an operating system or database on it.
If you want to do that, you can look at EBS.
This is a virtual disk that can be attached to an EC2 instance.
The size of the disc can be changed,
but it's not done automatically and then EFS is a virtual disk that can be
attached to EC2 and it can be attached to multiple EC2 instances and the size of
the disc is elastic.
Essentially it scales up and down depending on your usage.
Now you can also attach EBS to multiple EC2 instances as well.
It used to be that you couldn't, but now you can.
So the main difference between EBS and EFS is just that EFS
automatically resizes,
depending on how much you're using it whereas EBS does not.
So this is it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.