Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture. In this lecture,
we're going to look at S3 versioning. So in the last lecture,
we created a serverless website on S3.
I want you to go to where you downloaded your index.html and your error.html.
I want you to go ahead and open up index.html. So here's where I downloaded it.
I'm going to go ahead and open this up in my favorite text editor,
which is a BB Editor or BB Edit and we can see in here,
this is a pitch, or this is basically the HTML of my website and it says, hello,
Cloud Gurus.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to change this header to hello Cloud
Gurus. This is version two,
and I'm going to go ahead and save that and then we're going to go over to the
AWS console some back in the AWS console.
Let's go ahead and click on S3. You can get to S3 by the way,
as always by clicking on Storage, S3 is under storage,
that will load up S3, and then we're going to go over to our website.
So we're going to go into the bucket with our website on there.
So I'm in my S3 website bucket.
I'm going to go over to Properties and the very first one is object versioning.
So what we're going to do is enable versioning and this basically allows you to
keep multiple variants of an object in the same bucket.
You can preserve versions too. You can use versioning to preserve,
retrieve and restore different versions of your bucket.
So go ahead and hit Edit,
and we're going to go ahead and enable it once it's enabled,
you can only suspend it. You can't delete a versioning. So bear that in mind.
Let's go ahead and hit save and we have now turned versioning on so we can see
it in him. We click on our objects. We can see that in here,
we've got now got this little tab and it says List Versions.
So right now I've only got one version of my index.html.
Let's go ahead and upload that file that we just changed.
So go in and go to add files and we'll go over to my downloads
directory and it's in here and um index.html
and then I'm going to go ahead and hit Open that has now opened it,
and we are now ready to upload it.
So I'm going to go ahead and upload it that has now been successful.
If we click on Exit, we should be able to see if we go to list versions.
We've got two different versions. Now we've got the null version.
This was the default version. You can see the timestamp here,
and then we've got the newest version, our index.html.
If we go ahead and click on that and click on the URL,
we'll be able to see this is version two. So that's really cool.
If we go back to our bucket,
what we're going to do is we're going to go back to our bucket and we'll go and
look at our versions and then we'll try and roll this version back.
So what we can do is go ahead and click in here and then what we can do is we
can go ahead and delete it and this is going to just delete this version of the
object, or at least it will be a specifically, it will be undone.
So what we're going to do is go ahead and delete.
It says permanently delete objects, and you can write in here permanently
delete, go ahead and hit Delete.
There we go. That has now deleted that object. So we can. Now,
if we click in here, we can see that there's only one version of the object.
This is the original version,
not version two and if we were to click on that and go ahead and click on the
URL, you can see we've now lost version two.
So we've rolled back our object to the original version and that's what
versioning is really good for is you can go in you can delete versions,
you can roll things back,
but you can also just go ahead and have a look at the original version than
version one, version two. You don't have to necessarily go in and delete it.
So that's all that versioning is. Let's go onto my exam tips.
So onto my exam tips, using versioning with S3,
it stores all versions of an object, and this includes all writes.
Even if you delete an object,
it's a great backup tool and versioning cannot be disabled.
Once versioning is enabled,
it can only be dis suspended and not disabled and it also
integrates with lifecycle rules.
So you can actually go in there and if a version is getting old,
it hasn't been changed in like 30 days.
You can then archive that off to Glacier,
for example so you can integrate it or you can even move it onto different you
know,
S3 storage mediums who might want to move it onto Infrequently Access and then
off to Glacier at some point in time and then finally you can use versioning
with MFA delete capabilities.
So this is multifactorial authentication delete.
So essentially it means that people can't go in and delete an object unless
they have two factor authentication.
So versioning does come up a little bit in the exam. Not very much though.
Really you just need to know what it is and what it does.
So if you have any questions, please let me know. If not,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.