Okay hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
This is on the AWS Shared Responsibility Model.
And this is a super important lecture going
into your exam.
You need to understand this model inside out
if you want to pass the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So what is it?
Well, while AWS manages the security of the cloud,
security in the cloud is the responsibility of the customer.
And customers retain control of what security they choose
to implement to protect their own content,
platform, applications, systems and network,
no differently than you would in an on-site data center.
So, The Shared Responsibility Model is basically saying
AWS are responsible for some things
in terms of security of the cloud.
For example, their data centers,
they're completely responsible for the security
of their data centers, you don't want anyone
just being able to walk into the data center
and take out a hard disk,
that may have your valuable information on it.
So that is what Amazon are responsible for.
But likewise, you're responsible for your EC2 instances.
If you forget to update them with security patches
and you then get hacked, that's not Amazon's fault,
that's your fault for not updating your EC2 instances.
So the Shared Responsibility Model is talking
about who is responsible for what in cloud.
And this is a really good diagram
of who is responsible for what
under the Shared Responsibility Model.
So let's start with AWS.
AWS are going to be responsible for the regions,
for the availability zones, for the edge locations.
They're going to be responsible for all the hardware
of the assets that sit inside these availability zones
and edge locations and regions.
They're going to be responsible for the compute,
the storage, the databases, and the networking.
And databases here would be the databases
that store your information.
So Amazon use DynamoDB for most
of their database technology.
And then we've got the software.
So AWS are responsible for things like the hypervisor.
In some cases, this will go all the way up to
the operating system.
So like with RDS, you cannot log into
RDS's operating system.
so Amazon are responsible for patching RDS.
So they're responsible for patching MySQL, for example,
or SQL server.
They're responsible for patching the operating system
that these things run on.
So if you're running SQL server
and it's running on Windows, Amazon are responsible
for patching that, you know that up to Windows.
Then when we move to the customer,
this is where you're responsible.
So you're going to be responsible for your client side data.
So you're going to encrypt everything.
You're also going to be responsible
for the server side data.
So you're going to have things in S3 encrypted by default.
You're going to be responsible for things like networking.
So are you going to be communicating over HTTPS
or over a VPN, or something like that?
You're responsible for your operating systems.
Now an operating system here would be EC2.
Amazon would be responsible for the operating system
with RDS.
But Amazon can't log into your EC2 instances.
So that is your responsibility.
You're responsible for your network
and firewall configurations.
You're responsible for the platform, the applications
for IAM.
if you create a user with God Mode access,
and then publish these access key ID
and secret access key on GitHub.
That's not Amazon's fault, that's your fault
and you're responsible for your customer data.
Now, I want you to go over to aws.amazon.com/compliance.
Okay, so here I am in aws.amazon.com/compliance.
We saw this in the last lecture.
If you scroll down,
you'll be able to see here shared responsibility.
So go ahead and click on that.
And this will give you the Shared Responsibility Model.
And you should really, really, really read this
before you go into your exams.
And as an overview, basically, security and compliance
is a shared responsibility between AWS and the customer.
This shared model can help relieve
a customer's operational burden
as AWS operates, manages and controls
the components from the host operating system
and virtualization layer, down to the physical security
of the facilities in which the service operates.
And the customer assumes responsibility and management
of the guest operating systems.
And this includes updates and security patches
and other associated application software.
So such as MySQL or any database technology running.
Maybe exchange or whatever it is you install
on your servers, as well as the configuration
of the AWS provided security group firewall.
So basically, Amazon's responsible for everything up
to the guest operating system, and then you're responsible
from the guest operating system upwards.
Now, we are only talking about EC2 here.
So you are responsible for patching EC2.
For things like RDS or any S3 is going to run
on an operating system.
That's always going to be Amazon's responsibility
because you don't get access to the operating system
which S3 runs on.
You don't get access to the operating system
which RDS runs on or DynamoDB, etc.
So when they're talking about operating system here,
in this particular context,
they're talking about EC2 and you are responsible
for patching EC2.
So AWS' responsibility is security of the cloud
and a customer's responsibility is security in the cloud.
So try and remember that going into your exams.
It's quite a short page, I would just go ahead
and read it yourself and make sure you understand it.
Where you're going to be tested on this is particularly
those examples about where should you be doing
your security patches?
Well you should be doing that with EC2.
What responsibilities does Amazon have?
Well, they have the responsibilities
of securing data centers, for example,
or they have the responsibility
of securing the operating systems
on which RDS runs or on which S3 runs.
But the data you put into S3,
or into RDS is your responsibility.
And when you transmit that data out to other applications,
you should be doing that through HTTPS,
which is encrypted not using HTTP.
And there's actually an amusing song
on the shared responsibility model
and it's sung by Kate Turchin.
And so check out this YouTube link.
Kate sings lots of songs about AWS,
so subscribe to her channel.
It's actually quite fun.
So on to my exam tips.
My first exam tip, is go ahead and read
the Shared Responsibility Model.
And you can do that by going to
aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model.
And make sure you read it, understand it.
And then also try and remember this diagram.
So AWS are going to be responsible
for the security of the cloud.
So this is all the hardware spread across the regions,
availability zones, edge locations.
They're responsible for the compute, the storage,
the database technology, the networking technology,
and then any software that's sitting on those stacks.
So that could be virtualization software that could be
application software such as RDS,
or such a SQL server for example, etc, etc.
The customer is responsible for security in the cloud.
So you're responsible for encrypting your data
both at rest and in transit.
You're responsible for your own operating systems
when it comes to EC2.
You're responsible for your security groups.
Your responsible for your network,
your firewall configurations, etc, etc.
You're responsible for IAM.
You're responsible for your customer data.
So honestly, the Shared Responsibility Model will probably
come up four or five times on your exam so you can get
some easy marks if you do learn this inside out.
And I want you when you're looking at an exam question
to visualize what the question is asking you.
So can you yourself do this in the AWS console
or inside EC2?
This could be things like security groups,
for example, you are in control of what ports are open
on your security group.
You are in control of provisioning
your identity access management users
and giving them permissions.
You are in control of patching your
EC2 operating systems or patching the databases
that are running on EC2.
So if you can see yourself doing this task,
then you're likely responsible.
If however, the question's around like data center security
or security cameras or cabling,
or even patching RDS operating systems, etc,
then it's likely that AWS are responsible.
If you see a question in the exam and you're like,
"Well, I don't know how I would do this"
then it's probably going to be AWS
who are responsible for that.
So do go ahead and read the Shared Responsibility Model.
Encryption is actually a really interesting
shared responsibility, because if it's an object
on S3, and Amazon's doing all the encrypting for you,
then they're responsible for the encryption of that,
as well as the keys.
But you're the one responsible for turning on encryption
in the first place.
You're the one who's responsible for making sure
that when you send stuff to S3,
it's being encrypted in transit.
So it's using HTTPS, that sort of thing.
So encryption is definitely a shared responsibility.
Mostly, it's a combination of both yours
and Amazon's responsibility.
If you're providing your own key,
then it's your responsibility.
encryption is definitely your responsibility
if you're providing your own key.
So like I said, just remember, as you go into the exam,
I want you to visualize what the questions asking you.
If it's asking you about, physical security
around the data center, then it's going to be AWS
who are responsible for that.
If it's asking you about your EC2 operating systems
and patching it, or databases running on EC2,
then that's going to be your responsibility.
Do not confuse that with the operating system of RDS,
however, because you have no visibility
into the operating system of RDS.
You can't log into Windows or Linux instances
that are running your database technology.
So patching RDS operating systems
is definitely Amazon's responsibility.
So hopefully that clears it up.
Like I said, probably five or six questions
on this in the exam.
Make sure you go ahead and read that link that
I had in the earlier slide.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.