Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture. In this lecture,
we're going to look at Trusted Advisor and the different key services that is
provided by Trusted Advisor. So what is Trusted Advisor? Well,
it's an online tool that provides real-time guidance to help you provision your
resources following AWS best practices and Trusted Advisor checks
help optimize your AWS infrastructure, increased security and performance,
and reduce your overall cost and monitor your service limits.
So probably the best way to understand what Trusted Advisor is,
is by going in and having a look at it. So if we go over to Services,
we go down to Management and Governance.
You'll be able to see a Trusted Advisor in here.
So it's just there and go ahead and click on it and basically going into your
exam, what you need to understand is what Trusted Advisor can check for.
And it's really these five pillars, cost optimization, performance,
security, fault tolerance, and service limits.
So cost optimization will basically tell you you know,
how to best optimize your costs. We actually click in here.
You'll be able to see that it's all locked right now.
So you can't do any cost optimization by default.
What you need to do is upgrade your support package to business.
So in order to unlock all of Trusted Advisor,
you need to upgrade your support package to business.
You do get a free-you do get some free ones though, like security.
You can see we've got two free ones here,
so it can have a look at your EBS public snaps and your RDS public snaps.
If we go back to Dashboard,
we can scroll down and just have a look at all the ones that is provided for
free. And if you want to check something,
you just hit the little refresh button and that will be Trusted Advisor going
in. So in this one,
it's basically looking at your security groups and it's seeing if you've got any
specific ports unrestricted on your security group.
So maybe you've left port 22, the SSH port,
open to the world.
Trusted Advisor will go in and tell you whether or not you've done that and you
can see because this is a new account, I don't have any ports open at all.
so that's all Trusted Advisor is. So, like I said, going into the exam,
you need to know the default services that are available to you.
To have Trusted Advisor unlocked,
you must upgrade your support plans to Business and just basically remember
this, it does cost optimization. It does performance. It does security.
It does fault tolerance and it does service limits as well.
So that is it for this lecture everyone. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.