Okay.
Hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to section two.
In this lecture we're going to look at
cloud computing and AWS.
We're going to explore what it is at a high level.
And we're going to cover off the six advantages
of cloud computing, the three different types of
cloud computing and three different deployment
types of cloud computing.
So, what is cloud computing?
Well it's the on demand delivery of compute, database
storage, applications and other IT resources through
cloud services platform, like Amazon for example via
the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing.
So I want you to think of it simply as
renting someone else's computer.
So you can rent it to do computations, you can rent it
to store your files, you can rent it to send text messages,
et cetera et cetera.
So cloud is just a way of using somebody else's computing
capacity and your going to rent it by paying either
by the minute or by the hour or even by the second.
That is all that cloud is.
It's just renting someone else's computer.
So what are the six advantages of cloud computing?
Well this is actually discussed in the first whitepaper,
which is an overview of Amazon Web Services.
It's the very first one that's mentioned
in the exam blueprint.
So if you do get the chance I would recommend that you
go ahead and read that.
I'll link to it in the resources section of the course.
We're going to cover it very quick, sort of high level.
So the first advantage of cloud computing is you can
trade capital expense for variable expense.
So instead of having to invest heavily in data centers
and servers before you're even going to know how to use
them with Amazon Web Services or with other cloud computing
providers, you can pay only when you consume computing
resources and pay only for how much you consume.
So basically you're going to pay for only what you use.
You don't have to sign three or five year contracts.
You don't have to go out and buy physical servers,
networking gear, et cetera.
That's the great thing about cloud computing.
You can spin up a little server, can have it running for
60 seconds, then decide you don't want to use it that way.
Go ahead and terminate it and you've only paid
for that 60 seconds worth of server time.
The second advantage is you can benefit
from massive economies of scale.
So you're never going to have the same
purchasing power as Amazon.
Amazon will literally go out and build their own physical
servers, their networking gear,
their own storage arrays, et cetera.
Amazon is going to do this much better than you.
This is a meme that I made which is a South Park meme.
I don't know if you guys watch South Park but
the skiing instructor would always say
if you do this, you're going to have a bad time.
So if you try and compete with Amazon
you're going to have a bad time.
You're never going to compete with a company that has
that level of purchasing power.
And they pass those cost savings on to you.
The third advantage is you stop guessing about capacity.
So you're probably going to buy too much or too little.
You might have ten web servers when you only need four.
Or you might only have two when you need six.
In that scenario if you buy too much you've wasted money,
and if you too little you're going to have down time.
Now cloud can scale with your business needs with
no long term contracts. We're going
to cover that off as we go throughout this course.
We're going to look at autoscaling.
But essentially we can set up metrics and say
when my website gets this busy then add additional
web servers and it will scale automatically in line
with your capacity needs.
The fourth advantage to cloud computing is you can
increase your speed and agility.
And A Cloud Guru is a perfect example of that.
So my brother Sam built the platform in three weeks.
He went and took three weeks off of work, and he went and
locked himself away in a bedroom.
Basically used up all his annual leave and he built our
entire learning management system in three weeks.
And it was designed using a new type of architecture
called serverless architecture.
We're going to explore serverless later on
in this section of the course.
But essentially it means you've got no virtual machines,
or physical machines.
It scales infinitely with demand.
And if we were to start this business 15 years ago,
we probably would have had to go out and buy servers
and rent data center space.
And we probably honestly never would have
gotten off the ground.
We would had to have a large amount of capital.
I literally started this business by buying a 15 pound
microphone and using a really really old laptop.
And because we had the advantage of being able to use
Amazon Web Services and actually knowing the services
inside-out, we were able to build our own school.
And the way we designed it, didn't use any servers and as
effectively basically free hosting for two years.
It was only when we started getting really really big is
when we started incurring a bill.
And even now our compute bill is about 500 dollars a month.
Which is just amazing when you think
that we are getting close to a million students.
So the great thing about cloud computing is you can increase
your speed and agility in moving into the cloud.
Number five, stop spending money running and
maintaining data centers.
Focus on what you're good at, not managing infrastructure.
Let someone else manage that for you.
Number six is go global in minutes.
So easily deploy your applications in multiple regions
around the world with just a few clicks.
And this means you can provide lower latency and better
experience for your customers at a minimal cost.
So there's three different types of cloud computing.
We've got infrastructure as a service,
pLatform as a service, software as a service.
Infrastructure as a service is basically AWS.
This is where you manage the server it can be physical or
virtual as well as the operating system.
Usually the data center provider will have
no access to your server.
So a good example of this would be EC2.
AWS actually goes up into all three layers
but infrastructure as a service is EC2.
Which we're going to cover off in a couple of
lectures from now.
We then have platform as a service.
I want you to think of Go Daddy as a good example for this.
At Go Daddy you can just upload a bunch of website code and
basically point your domain name to it.
And then it will show up.
You don't have to worry about managing the underlying
hardware and operating systems.
You just focus on your applications and somebody else
worries about security patching, updates and maintenance.
Amazon do this as well, through Elastic Beanstalk or
through Amazon Lightsail.
So they do provide platform as a service as well.
Then we have software as a service.
The easiest one to think of for this one is Gmail.
So all you do is manage your inbox or the software
provided to you by Google.
Then Google takes care of things like the data centers, the
servers, the network, the storage, the maintenance,
the patching and all you have to do is worry about
the software itself and how you want to use it.
I'm terrible at Gmail.
I've got at least 30 thousand unread emails right now.
It's sort of a running joke in my company.
But yeah, hopefully you guys can manage your email
a lot better than I can.
And then we've got the three different types
of cloud computing deployment.
So we've got public cloud, this is the big three.
So we've got AWS, we've got Azure, we've got GCP.
We then have hybrid.
This is a mixture of public and private.
So you might have your websites out on the public cloud,
but might have all your confidential employee information
on your own servers that you host and you don't really
want anyone to be able to access that.
So that's a mixture of public and private.
And then we have private cloud or on-premise.
And this is where you manage it in your data center.
Common deployments this would be Openstack or VMware
or Microsoft's Hyper-V.
And most organizations do either private cloud or hybrid
cloud, a mixture of public and private.
But a lot of big enterprises now are just
going all in on the public cloud.
Capital One is a very good example.
They wanted to get rid of all their data centers and let
Amazon worry about managing all the data centers.
Capital One wanted to go out and build their own
applications and just become more of a...
A lot of people think of Capital One as a bank,
but they're more of a tech company than a bank.
So that's a good example of people who have
gone all in on public cloud.
So this is an actual photo.
This is a Tesla Roadster in orbit of the Earth on the
sixth of February 2018.
Elon Musk sent his Tesla Roadster on the way to Mars
using the Falcon Heavy.
And you can see here on the screen is says "don't panic."
Now as we go through and look at all the different
AWS services you're going to get a little bit overwhelmed.
You're going to start to panic but don't worry
you don't need to know all these services in order to
pass your Certified Cloud Practitioner.
To be honest, I've got a lot of certs
and I still don't know all the services.
I doubt there's any one person in the world now who
knows all the AWS services inside-out.
Basically, a lot of people just specialize
in particular areas.
So lets have a look at the high level services.
And we'll start with the AWS Global Infrastructure.
So these are the data centers spread all throughout
the world in which Amazon Web Services has
all their different services.
And their services consist of things like compute,
storage, databases, migration and transfer,
network and content delivery, developer tools.
They have robotics, they have blockchain,
they have satellite.
They have management and governance, they media services,
machine learning, analytics,
security, identity and compliance, mobile, AR and VR.
So augmented reality and virtual reality,
application integration.
We then have AWS cost management, customer engagement,
business applications, and then we have our desktop
and apps streaming.
We then have IoT, and we then have game development.
And these are all the high level services.
Under these individual sections there's a whole bunch of
different services, so compute might have five different
services available to it.
Robotics currently just has one.
Application integration might have ten.
So there's an awful lot of services.
So you might be wondering what is actually applicable to the
Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
Well its just these services.
So compute; storage; databases; migration and transfer;
network and content delivery; security, identity,
and compliance; and then AWS cost management.
And that's all you really need to know to pass your
Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
We're going to cover this off in a lot of detail
in the rest of the course.
And to be honest, you could probably lose those
two service as well.
So really the core fundamental service are compute,
storage, databases, security identity and compliance,
and AWS cost management.
That's really what you need to know to pass your Certified
Cloud Practitioner exam.
So what will you learn in this course?
Well under compute, you're going to learn about EC2
and you're going to learn about Lambda.
So EC2 is just virtual machines in the cloud.
Lambda is the next, sort of, level up.
Where you don't have to worry about virtual machines at all.
All you'll worry about is your code.
Then have databases.
We're going to learn about relational databases, so RDS.
As well as DynamoDB, which is Amazon's
nonrelational database.
Then going to look at storage.
So we're going to start with S3, which is know as simple
storage service, going to look at Glacier.
And we're also going to look at networks.
So going to look at VPCs at a very high level.
You don't really need to know them in a lot of depth until
you go on to do your associate exams.
And we're also going to look at Route 53, which is
Amazons DNS service.
So when you type in hellocloudgurus.com, how does that
connect up to a web server.
And don't worry if you do not come from a tech background,
I like to quote myself here but, seriously
anyone can learn AWS.
I myself started out as an immigration lawyer.
I was not in tech at all.
I went and learned, I went to night school
and got my Microsoft and Cisco certifications.
Off the back of that I got a job at a Rackspace, and
that's where I learned to become a solutions architect.
And at the time we were at war with Amazon to dominate
the public cloud.
So I learned an awful lot of AWS stuff while working in
the industry, but I did not come from a tech background.
I do not have a software engineering degree, I do not have
a computer science degree.
I only learned to program when I was like 27-28 years old.
So, anyone can learn AWS.
You do not have to have a tech background and anyone
can pass the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
And I've taught this to over 750,000 people.
So trust me I do know what I'm talking about.
Don't worry if you don't have any, sort of,
technical background we will have
an explain-it-like-I'm-five approach.
We're going to take all the concepts and just
start you out slowly and just build on the different
sort of concepts as we go.
And then by the end of this course you should be ready
to pass the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
So why should you learn AWS?
So this is cloud as a portion
of total potential market spent.
So in this graph, basically what they're saying is
in 2015 out of all the IT spend the organizations had
4.3% of that was spent on cloud computing.
By 2016 it was 6.1%.
We go up to 2019 we're at 11.3% and they are predicting it
to increase by 50% by 2021 all the way up to 15.3%.
So you can imagine how much further this has to go.
Eventually, we're going to get in this, sort of,
high 70s or 80s percent.
And this is the public cloud as market share.
So basically, in 2016 Amazon had 35% of the market share.
Microsoft had 8%.
And then Google and Ali Baba basically made up 2%.
And you had all the other cloud providers.
So this could be Kohler, this could people like Rackspace,
et cetera, at 52%.
And then as you can see as we go toward 2019, the other
providers are dropping off.
Microsoft is managing to sort of keep pace with Amazon.
Google is slowly getting there as well.
As well as Ali Baba.
But Amazon are the clear market leaders.
So what I'm trying to show you from these two graphs is
that this is an incredible industry to get into because
its got an awful long way to grow.
Companies are spending more and more on public cloud.
And once you get certified you're going to have
really good job security.
Getting AWS certified is a fantastic move for your future.
There are very few people out there who are AWS certified.
And the more certs you get the more,
sort of, unique you are.
So I would encourage you to go on and do
at least some associate courses.
Preferably the Certified Solutions Architect Associate.
And if you really want to get into it, go and do the
professional level courses.
So what are my exam tips?
Well you'll need to know the
six advantages of cloud.
So they are, trade capital expense for variable expense,
benefit from massive economies of scale,
stop guessing about capacity,
increase speed and agility,
stop spending your money running and maintaining
data centers, and you can go global in minutes.
Also know the three different types of cloud computing.
So, we looked at infrastructure as a service,
platform as a service and then software as a service.
Infrastructure as a service is just like EC2.
Platform as a service will be things like Go Daddy or
Elastic Beanstalk where you upload your code and they will
go in and provision the underlying resources for you.
And then we have software as a service, which is
just very similar to Gmail.
Don't worry if you don't know what EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk
and that sort of stuff is, we will cover that off later
on in this section of the course.
And then finally know the three different types
of cloud computing deployments.
So we've got public cloud, which is AWS,
Azure, GCP, Ali Baba.
Then have hybrid, which is a mixture
of public and private cloud.
And then we have private cloud itself,
which is on premise where you manage it in your data center.
So it's Openstack, VMware or even Hyper-V.
So that is it for this lecture.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.