Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
which services can be used on premise,
so it's a bit opposite to the last lecture
where we looked at which services are global.
These are the AWS services
that you can actually use on premise
in your own data centers
or inside your corporate headquarters,
and it's important to understand this
going into the certified cloud practitioner exam.
So which AWS services can be used on premise?
Well, the first is Snowball,
and Snowball is just basically a gigantic disk.
You essentially get it delivered to your headquarters,
and then you load up all your data on it,
and then ship it back to Amazon.
So this is what a Snowball looks like,
and typically they'll come out
in 80 terabytes worth of size.
So let's pretend you've got a hundred terabytes
of information inside your data center
or inside your corporate headquarters,
and you've got a hundred megabit per second line.
That's going to take you over 100 days to load up into AWS,
and that could be, you know, that's over three months.
If you get a Snowball, however,
they come in 80 terabytes worth of size,
so you need two of them to load up to 100 terabytes,
and you could basically move that data
into AWS within one week,
so essentially, a Snowball is just like a gigantic disk
that Amazon send out to you, you load your data into it,
and then you send it back to Amazon
who then load it into S3.
A Snowball Edge is very much similar to a Snowball
except that it also has CPU,
and it's basically a computer with storage,
and it allows you to deploy Lambda functions on premise,
so you can actually have your Lambda functions,
you know, right there on premise.
Boeing used this in their aircraft
to do testing on their aircraft.
I don't know the specifics of it, but I do know that,
you know, that's one use case of it.
So it's essentially you would use a Snowball Edge
where you can't get AWS connectivity.
Maybe you're working in the Antarctic or something
but you need AWS resources.
You can use a Snowball Edge, and it comes with things
like Lambda as well as storage.
So those are two AWS services that can be used on premise.
Next up is Storage Gateway.
Storage Gateway is very similar to Snowball
except it stays on premise at all times.
It can either be physical or virtual,
so you can have a virtual machine
or you can have a physical device in your data center,
and Storage Gateway is used in a number of different ways,
but essentially it's a way of caching your files
inside your data center or inside your headquarters,
and it then replicates those files directly to S3,
but it does mean that if in some cases,
if you were to lose a internet connection,
you still have those files locally.
So Storage Gateway is another AWS service
that can be used on premise.
CodeDeploy is a way of deploying your code
to EC2 Instances, but you can also deploy your code
to your on premise web servers as well.
We cover CodeDeploy in a lot of detail
in the Certified Developer Associate course.
For the purposes of the Certified Cloud Practitioner Exam
you basically just need to know what it is and what it does
and that you can use it to deploy applications,
your applications on premise,
and of course, CodeDeploy, the name is, you know,
gives a big hint as to what it actually does.
It deploys code.
We then have Opsworks.
Opsworks is similar to Elastic Beanstalk.
We cover Opsworks off in a lot of detail
in the Certified SysOps Administrator Associate Exam,
so do check that out as well.
Opsworks uses Chef,
which is a way of doing automated deployments,
and you can use Opsworks to deploy your application code
to either EC2 instances inside the AWS Cloud
as well as to your on premise,
you know, web servers as well.
And then IoT Greengrass is another AWS Service.
It's basically IoT, but it connects your devices
up to the AWS cloud,
and that's an on premise service as well.
So which AWS services can be used
to deploy applications on premise?
Well, we covered them both off.
CodeDeploy, and the hint is in the name.
It deploys code, so it can be on premise
as well as into EC2, and then also Opsworks as well.
So that is it for this lecture.
It's very, very a quick one,
so just remember which AWS Services can be used on premise:
Snowballs, Snowball Edge, Storage Gateway, CodeDeploy,
Opsworks and IoT Greengrass.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.